+++
nid = "7831"
uid = "157"
author = "mhayslett"
title = "Failure as the Treatment for Transforming Complexity to Complicatedness"
tags = [ "News and Announcements",]
oldpath = "/blog/failure-treatment-transforming-complexity-complicatedness"
date = "2019-02-22 09:42:59 -0700"
draft = "false"
+++
Welcome to the fourth issue of volume 42 of the IASSIST Quarterly (IQ
42:4, 2018).

The IASSIST Quarterly presents in this issue three papers. When you know
how, cycling is easy. However, data for cycling infrastructure appears
to be a messiness of complications, stakeholders and data producers. The
exemplary lesson is that whatever your research area there are often
many views and types of data possible for your research. And the fuller
view does not make your research easier, but it does make it better. The
term *geospatial data* covers many different types of data, and as such
presents problems for building access points or portals for these data.
The second paper also brings experiences with complicated data, now with
a focus on data management and curation. I would say that the third
paper on software development in digital humanities is also about
complicatedness, but this time the complicatedness was not overcome.
Maybe here *complexity* is a better choice of word than
*complicatedness*. In my book things are complex until we have solved
how to deal with them; after that they are only complicated. The word
*failure* is even among the keywords selected for this entry. Again:
Read and learn. You might learn more from failure than from success. I
find that Sir Winston Churchill is always at hand to keep up the good
spirit: 'Success consists of going from failure to failure without loss
of enthusiasm'.

From Canada comes the paper 'Cycling Infrastructure in the
Ottawa-Gatineau Area: A Complex Assemblage of Data' that some readers
might have seen in the form of a poster at the IASSIST 2018 conference
in Montreal. The authors are Sylvie Lafortune, Social Sciences Librarian
at Carleton University in Ottawa, and Joël Rivard, Geography and GIS
Librarian at the University of Ottawa. The article is a commendable
example of how to encompass and illuminate an area of research not only
though data but also by including the data producers and stakeholders,
and the relationships between them. The article is based upon a study
conducted in 2017-2018 that explored the data story behind the cycling
infrastructure in Ottawa, Canada's capital city; or to be precise, the
infrastructure of the cycling network of over 1,000 km which spans both
sides of the Ontario and Quebec provincial boundary known as the
Ottawa-Gatineau National Capital Region. The municipalities invest in
cycling infrastructure including expanded and improved bike lanes and
paths, traffic calming measures, parking facilities, bike-transit
integration, bike sharing and training programs to promote cycling and
increased cycling safety. The research included many types of data among
which were data from telephone interviews concerning 'who, where, why,
when, and how' in an Origin-Destination survey, data generated by mobile
apps tracking fitness activities, collision data, and bike counters
placed in the area. The study shows how a narrow subject topic such as
cycling infrastructure is embedded in complicated data and many
relationships.

Ningning Nicole Kong is the author of 'One Store has All? --  the
Backend Story of Managing Geospatial Information Toward an Easy
Discovery'. Many libraries are handling geographical information and my
shortened version of the abstract from the article promises:
*GeoBlacklight and OpenGeoportal are two open-source projects that
initiated from academic institutions, which have been adopted by many
universities and libraries for geospatial data discovery. The paper
provides a summary of geospatial data management strategies by reviewing
related projects, and focuses on best management practices when curating
geospatial data*. The paper starts with a historical introduction to
geospatial datasets in academic libraries in the United States and also
presents the complicatedness involved in geospatial data. The paper
mentions geoportals and related projects in both the United States and
Europe with a focus on OpenGeoportal. Nicole Kong is an assistant
professor and GIS specialist at Purdue University Libraries.  

Sophie 1.0 was an attempt to create a multimedia editing, reading, and
publishing platform. Based at the University of Southern California with
national and international collaboration, Sophie 2.0 was a project to
rewrite Sophie 1.0 in the Java programming language. The author Jasmine
S. Kirby gives the rationale for the article 'How NOT to Create a
Digital Media Scholarship Platform: The History of the Sophie 2.0
Project' in the sentence: 'Understanding what went wrong with Sophie 2.0
can help us understand how to create better digital media scholarship
tools'. For the first time we now have  *failure* among the keywords
used for a paper in IQ. The Institute of the Future of the Book (IFB)
was a central collaborator in the development of the Sophie versions.
The IFB describes itself as a *think-and-do tank* and it is doing many
projects. The Kirby paper gives us a brief insight into the future of
reading, starting from basic e-books in the 1960s. When you read through
the article you will note caveats like lack of focus on usability and
changing of the underneath software language. The article ends with good
questions for evaluating digital scholarship tools.

Submissions of papers for the IASSIST Quarterly are always very welcome.
We welcome input from IASSIST conferences or other conferences and
workshops, from local presentations or papers especially written for the
IQ. When you are preparing such a presentation, give a thought to
turning your one-time presentation into a lasting contribution. Doing
that after the event also gives you the opportunity of improving your
work after feedback. We encourage you to login or create an author login
to https://www.iassistquarterly.com (our Open Journal System
application). We permit authors 'deep links' into the IQ as well as
deposition of the paper in your local repository. Chairing a conference
session with the purpose of aggregating and integrating papers for a
special issue IQ is also much appreciated as the information reaches
many more people than the limited number of session participants and
will be readily available on the IASSIST Quarterly website at
https://www.iassistquarterly.com.  Authors are very welcome to take a
look at the instructions and layout:

<https://www.iassistquarterly.com/index.php/iassist/about/submissions>

Authors can also contact me directly via e-mail: kbr@sam.sdu.dk. Should
you be interested in compiling a special issue for the IQ as guest
editor(s) I will also be delighted to hear from you.

Karsten Boye Rasmussen - February 2019
