+++
author = "Robin Rice"
title = "Opening Remarks at IASSIST 2025"
date = "2025-06-14 14:01:00 -0700"
draft = "true"
banner = ""
+++

*It is an IASSIST tradition for the President to give opening remarks at
the first plenary of the annual conference. Below are Robin Rice's
opening remarks on 4th June in Bristol, England, for the 50th
anniversary IASSIST conference, as the [outgoing
President](https://iassistdata.org/about/iassist-elections/) for 2025.*

Good morning and welcome to **[IASSIST
2025](https://iassistdata.org/conferences/iassist2025/): Bridging
oceans, harbouring data & anchoring the future**. A great theme for our
50th anniversary conference, and more prophetic than I would have
guessed when the Programme Committee came up with it back in the autumn
of 2024, but that's a thought for another time.

I'd like to dwell a bit, with your indulgence, on the 50th
anniversary. On [April 10-12 in
1975](https://iassistdata.org/conferences/1974-1999-conferences/), the
founders of IASSIST gathered at the London School of Economics here in
England for a humbly named "IASSIST Organizing Committee Meeting".
Having organised on the back of the previous year's 8th World Congress
of Sociology in Toronto, we knew they were serious about the need for a
conference focusing on 'data archives and program library services' (in
other words, saving and sharing both data and code), apart from the
academic topics discussed there. We also knew they were serious about
having fun, as in 2 years time they famously hosted their conference in
Cocoa Beach, Florida in February, 1977. But that was one tradition that
didn't stick, we've not had a beach setting ever since, and nobody knows
why. Well, Carolyn Geda probably does, who was the first president,
[based at ICPR, now
ICPSR](https://www.icpsr.umich.edu/web/pages/about/history/early-years.html),
at the University of Michigan. Anyway, by 1975 the Panel Study of Income
Dynamics had been running for 7 years, the General Social Survey for 3
years, and the second of a string of longitudinal studies in the UK, the
[British Cohort
Study](https://cls.ucl.ac.uk/cls-studies/1970-british-cohort-study/),
for 5 years. As everyone knows, these were analysed on huge computers
with less computing power than is on this tiny phone I hold. The
[IASSIST Quarterly](https://iassistdata.org/iq/), or IQ, wouldn't be
published for another 2 years. Out in the world [The
Hustle](https://youtu.be/SFzMs2SN--s?si=Vxymu6xsSLzGrTyf), by Van McCoy
(who?) was a massive hit in the US and Canada and reached number 3 in
the UK.

Jumping ahead to 1985, [Judith
Rowe](https://iassistdata.org/blog/2022/05/06/judith-s-rowe-in-memoriam/)
from Princeton was President of IASSIST, and the conference was held in
Amsterdam with a theme that never gets old, "Public access to public
data." That was the year the [International Social Survey Programme
began](https://issp.org/) sampling over a million respondents across
countries (5 then) with harmonised questions. "[Cataloging
Machine-Readable Data Files: An Interpretive
Manual](https://crl.acrl.org/index.php/crl/article/view/13957/15403)\"
was written by Sue A. Dodd and published by ALA three years earlier. The
Macintosh had been introduced by Steve Jobs a year earlier, sporting the
first mouse and graphical user interface.

1995 was the early dawn of the World Wide Web, with Netscape Navigator
replacing Mosaic as the browser of choice that year. Apparently [IPUMS
(Integrated Public Use Microdata Series) had a website that
year](https://blog.popdata.org/three-decades-of-ipums-data/), but
typically, they were delivering data through anonymous FTP. The 1990 1%
sample was huge -- 163 megabytes. [Chuck Humphrey was the outgoing
IASSIST
president](https://iassistdata.org/about/general-assembly-minutes-1995/),
and the conference was in Quebec at Universite Laval, called "Partners
for access: working together in a changing data environment \[L'acces
aux données dans un environnement en pleine mutation: un partenariat à
developer\]" (forgive me for not trying to read it in French). Chuck
mastered the combination titles of our conference themes; he was also
our [first
webmaster](https://iassistquarterly.com/public/pdfs/iqvol271humphrey.pdf).
And he started the tradition of showing pictures from the event at the
closing ceremony: mostly ones he took, with off the cuff comments and
captions that made us giggle. According to an IQ article by Mary
Vardigan, this was also [the year the DDI
standard](https://iassistquarterly.com/public/pdfs/iqvol371_4_vardigan.pdf),
Data Documentation Initiative, was conceived by a small international
group. And from 1996, Wendy Watkins from Carleton University and others
would challenge Statistics Canada to embark on a ['data liberation'
initiative](https://bulletin-archives.caut.ca/bulletin/articles/1997/01/stats-canada-launches-data-liberation-initiative)
(DLI) to free up government data to researchers.

Now I'm going to speed up, 'cause you see where I'm going with this.
[2005 Ann Green, from Yale, was
President](https://iassistdata.org/blog/2005/06/13/ann-green-completes-her-presidency-still-smiling/),
and we had the conference in -- oh yes, Edinburgh. I was there, were any
of you? The theme was [Evidence and
Enlightenment](https://iassistdata.org/conferences/archive/2005-edinburgh/),
and as I recall we added a fourth parallel stream to accommodate all the
papers for the first time. Some even stayed on for a weekend in
Pitlochry and watched Highland Games. The winner of the first conference
paper prize award was [Reduce, reuse, recycle: issues in the secondary
use of research
data](https://iassistquarterly.com/index.php/iassist/article/view/599),
by Margaret Law, University of Alberta, from where Chuck hailed. Most of
the major repository platforms were in use; Github didn't exist yet but
its antecedents did. Wikipedia had become the most popular reference
site on the Internet, [with 750,000
articles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Wikipedia#2005) and
social networking was redefining the internet (Web 2.0 having been
popularised by Tim O'Reilly the year before).

In 2015, you may recall, data was the new black, the new oil, it was a
valuable asset, and it was BIG. Bill Block from Cornell was our outgoing
president, with his top ten tweets at the closing ceremony of
Minneapolis - Bridging the data divide: Data in the international
context. It must have been a busy wrap-up, because we also had a
[conference song](https://iassistdata.org/tags/song/), a tradition at
that time started by Melanie Wright from the UK Data Archive, with her
guitar, and taken up by an enthusiastic choir. The lyrics were sung to
the tune of Prince's Little Red Corvette. The refrain went,


&nbsp;*We're at IASSIST!*

&nbsp;*It will go much too fast*

&nbsp;*Now it's IASSIST!*

&nbsp;*Data nerds will make it last*


Which brings us to 2025, where all of you will help us make our history
again. We already know this period will be marked in the future by the
advent of generative AI, a high water mark for research data management,
the building momentum of Open Science/Open Research, new and continuing
data rescue initiatives, and unhappily, outright attacks by populist
governments on much we hold dear as data professionals -- science and
research itself on hot button topics like climate change, and diversity,
equality, and inclusion; libraries and librarians; data collections and
data producers -- their jobs and their funding; even universities and
their student bodies. Shout out to the delegates from Harvard who are
here: I am sure that you have all of our sympathy and solidarity in your
fight for academic freedom and self-determination, as a long-lived
educational institution -- even older than the US government. We stand
behind you, in more ways than one.

So there we are. If you're wondering how I know all this IASSIST-related
history, some of it I recall, most of it is on the [IASSIST
website](https://iassistdata.org/); all of it is google-able. If you
want more data and computing history, check out the transcript of Judith
Rowe's famous, [The Decades of My Life
speech](https://iassistquarterly.com/public/pdfs/iqvol231rowe.pdf),
published in the IQ in 1999. And so now it's time to greet our plenary
speaker for today, who will be introduced by Prof Felix Ritchie, our
local host.

*Robin Rice is Data Librarian and Head, Research Data Support at the
University of Edinburgh.*
