+++
nid = "1552"
jid = "00008"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1552"
title = "Social Science Data Archivist"
employer = "University of Washington"
employerurl = "http://www.washington.edu/"
postdate = "2005-07-05"
archivedate = "2005-12-31"
draft = "false"
+++

Our Center for Social Science Computation and Research (CSSCR) has an
outstanding opportunity for a(n) Data Archivist.

This individual will:

-   Maintain and develop a large electronic data archive for social
    sciences research.
-   Manipulate and construct large, complex data files using social
    science statistical software packages such as SPSS and SAS. 
-   Teach periodic courses in the effective use of Center?s data archive
    and other electronic data products. 
-   Maintain codebooks and update archive compendium. 
-   Obtain, format, store, and publish data on the Web for clients to
    use. 
-   Acquire data from domestic and international data archives. 
-   Search, evaluate and select data products not available from
    Center's standard sources. 
-   Integrate new data into the existing system. 
-   Act as Center's primary contact for numeric data request. 
-   Consult individually with faculty, staff and students to assist in
    identifying, accessing and utilizing appropriate data resources for
    their research and teaching. 
-   Perform data extraction from Center subscribed economic databases in
    response to various clients' inquires. 
-   Provide user help in retrieving data from large datasets, merging
    data files, recoding and computing variables, and formatting data
    for use in different statistical software packages. 
-   Act as liaison between data source organizations and data users in
    terms of data access, data security control and data use agreement. 
-   Attend annual meetings and workshops on acquisitions and subsequent
    use of new data.
  
Minimum requirements include Bachelors degree in related field.
Additional requirements include 3 or more years of direct employment
experience in electronic data archive development and maintenance.

Equivalent education/experience will substitute for all minimum
qualifications except when there are legal requirements, such as a
license/certification/registration.

MA or PhD preferred in Statistics, Library Science or a Social Science.
