+++
nid = "1557"
jid = "00013"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1557"
title = "Digital Preservation Officer"
employer = "ICPSR at the University of Michigan"
employerurl = "http://www.icpsr.umich.edu/"
postdate = "2005-12-05"
archivedate = "2005-12-31"
draft = "false"
+++
The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research
(ICPSR) seeks to appoint a Digital Preservation Officer to develop,
implement, and maintain a comprehensive digital preservation framework.
The individual selected for this position will hold a research faculty
appointment in ICPSR, and will report directly to the Director of ICPSR.
Joint appointment with other University of Michigan units is possible.

The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research
(ICPSR), established in 1962, is an integral part of the international
infrastructure of social science research. ICPSR maintains and provides
access to a vast archive of social science data for research and
instruction, and offers training in quantitative methods to facilitate
effective data use. To ensure that data resources are available to
future generations of scholars, ICPSR preserves data, migrating them to
new storage media as changes in technology warrant. In addition, ICPSR
provides user support to assist researchers in identifying relevant data
for analysis and in conducting their research projects.
  
Minimum: Ph.D in relevant field of study, in hand or anticipated by the
end of 2006. Five to eight years professional experience in the field,
with a minimum of two years of experience in the management of digital
preservation activities. Demonstrated ability to analyze, assess, and
find creative preservation and archiving solutions in a complex and
dynamic research based environment. Extensive knowledge of appropriate
procedures for preserving digital objects in a social science
environment where confidentiality must be protected. Experience managing
web-based data and knowledge dissemination activities. Experience in a
managerial role, (including fiscal responsibility) on multiple projects.
Demonstrated scholarly productivity, along with the proven ability to
work both independently and collaboratively in a diverse environment.
Excellent communication skills, both oral and written, in the English
language. Desired: Previous experience in teaching or training in the
field of interest. Knowledge and experience archiving data and providing
secondary analysis of those data. Experience in writing grant proposals
and applications, and in serving as a principal investigator. Experience
in a supervisory role providing direction to staff.
