+++
nid = "1550"
jid = "00005"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1550"
title = "Social Science Data Librarian"
employer = "Yale University"
employerurl = "http://www.yale.edu/"
postdate = "2005-05-06"
archivedate = "2005-12-31"
draft = "false"
+++
The University Library, which is a highly valued partner in teaching and
research at the University, holds over 11 million volumes, as well as
numerous other media, housed in the Sterling Memorial Library and 22
school and departmental libraries. It employs a dynamic and innovative
staff of nearly 600 FTE who have the opportunity to work with the
highest caliber of faculty and students, participate on committees and
are involved in other areas of staff development. A full spectrum of
library resources, from rare books and manuscripts to rapidly expanding
network of electronic resources, constitutes one of Yale's distinctive
strengths. The Library is engaged in numerous ambitious projects to
expand its collections and access to them. For additional information on
the Yale University Library, please visit the Library's Web site at:
<http://www.library.yale.edu/>.

RESPONSIBILITIES Under the general direction of the Director of the
Social Science Libraries and Information Services, the Data Librarian
shall be responsible for developing, maintaining, and providing service
for the Social Science Data Archive, and for collaborating with staff
within and outside the library to develop and provide coordinated
services to meet the full range of data needs at Yale. Participates with
appropriate groups within and outside of the library (including the
Library Systems Office, Manuscripts and Archives, Academic Media and
Technology) in the exploration, development, and implementation of
technological infrastructure and tools for long-term preservation of
data. Develops procedures for ingesting datasets into the SSDA.
Incorporates existing SSDA holdings into archival infrastructure.
Documents SSDA collections with appropriate metadata for access and
preservation. Keeps up to date on metadata standards for numeric and
spatial data (DDI, FGDC), as well as methods and standards for sharing
and cross-searching metadata (Dublin Core, OAI, etc.) Selects and
acquires datasets for the SSDA and takes all appropriate measures to
ensure that the collection, including codebooks and associated numeric
data, remain accessible in the face of changing technologies.
Collaborates with Academic Media and Technology's Social Science
Research Services in the coordinated provision of data services.
Participates with SSRS staff on teams working with faculty to document,
store, manage and preserve Yale-created datasets. Provides consulting
and instruction in the use of the SSDA and other numeric datasets.
Actively collaborates with library liaisons to academic departments, the
Geospatial Information Services Specialist, with the staff of Academic
Media and Technology's Social Science Research Services (including the
Social Science Statistical Laboratory), and with Computing Services in
the School of Management to develop and provide coordinated services to
meet the full range of data needs at Yale in the social science
departments and in related programs and professional schools. Assists
library selectors in evaluating and acquiring numeric datasets;
considers acquisitions for incorporating into SSDA. Collaborates with
the Government Information librarians to improve access to and
preservation of numeric and spatial data in the U.S. government, UN, EU,
FAO and Canadian documents collections. Maintains and develops StatCat,
Yale's numeric data catalog. Works with SSRS staff to enhance
functionality and presentation of StatCat. Catalogs SSDA holdings into
StatCat;with SSRS staff, explores and implements methods for including
StatCat in integrated searching initiatives. Maintains and develops the
library's relationships with state, national and international data
organizations, such as ICPSR and the Roper Center. Serves as the library
liaison, which includes collection development, reference and
instruction, to the Statistics Department. Provides guidance for the
operation and management of the Statistics Library. Participates in
reference and research services and instruction in the Social Science
Libraries, including evening and weekend hours on a rotating basis.
Serves as the SSLIS Webmaster and coordinates the work of SSLIS expert
computer users. Stays professionally active and monitors developments
and best practices elsewhere to Help ensure the excellence of Yale's
data archive and data services.
  
MLS from an ALA-accredited library school or equivalent degree in a
related field. For appointment at the Librarian II level, minimum of two
years professional library experience and demonstrated professional
accomplishments. Appointment at the Librarian III level requires a
minimum of five years relevant professional library experience and
professional accomplishments. Subject knowledge of the social sciences.
Experience using statistical and spatial software for data analysis and
with online and network based information systems. Familiarity with
common metadata standards, e.g., DDI. Familiarity with principles of
database design; direct experience with databases preferred (Microsoft
Access, SQL). Technical expertise in the configuration and maintenance
of computer workstations. Familiarity (if not direct experience) with
XML. Experience in using HTML. Demonstrated ability to work
collaboratively and effectively with others. Excellent oral, analytical
and written communication skills. Demonstrated public service attitude.

Preferred: Advanced degree in social sciences or computer science.
Experience in collection development, reference, and instruction in an
academic or research library. Experience in managing web sites.
Experience with government information and/or business resources.
Familiarity with data archival procedures.
