+++
nid = "1562"
jid = "00016"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1562"
title = "Geographic information systems (GIS)/Metadata librarian"
employer = "Columbia University Libraries"
employerurl = "http://www.columbia.edu/cu/lweb/"
postdate = "2006-06-28"
archivedate = "2006-08-28"
draft = "false"
+++
The Columbia University Libraries invite applications for the position
of GIS/Metadata Librarian for the Lehman Social Sciences Library. The
successful candidate will join the team of librarians and information
specialists that staff the Electronic Data Service. Lehman Library holds
a contemporary collection of more than 430,000 volumes and approximately
1,500 current periodical titles. It includes materials in political
science, sociology, social and cultural anthropology, international
affairs and public affairs, journalism and environmental science, and
houses Electronic Data Service (EDS), Maps, and U.S. Government
documents.

Reporting to the Head of the EDS, the GIS/Metadata Librarian will:

-   Work with colleagues from a variety of Library, IT, academic
    departments and University institutes in the design and creation of
    a searchable and easily accessible spatial data catalog that allows
    for remote access to spatial data collection.
-   Assume responsibility for the creation, according to accepted
    standards, and ongoing maintenance of metadata that describe
    Libraries' collection of spatial data.
-   Contribute to the review of software and equipment needed to provide
    up-to-date and advanced GIS programs.
-   Work with the GIS/Map Librarian and the Head of EDS to provide
    reference services, outreach and instruction in EDS. This includes:
    providing one-on-one consultations, assisting in instruction
    sessions, and training student assistants working in the unit.
-   Serve as backup for the GIS/Map librarian in overseeing the print
    map collection and the acquisition of GIS resources.

One of the world's leading research universities, Columbia provides
outstanding opportunities to work and grow in a unique intellectual
community. Set in the Morningside Heights academic village, Columbia
also presents the unmatched dynamism, diversity and cultural richness of
New York City. The University Libraries, grounded in collections of
remarkable depth and breadth, are also building extensive electronic
resources and services. The Libraries at Columbia are committed to
collegiality, professionalism, innovation and leadership.

We offer excellent benefits including 100% Columbia tuition exemption
for self and family and assistance with University housing. Columbia
will also pay 50% tuition for your dependent child who is a candidate
for an undergraduate degree at another accredited college or university.
  
Requirements are: MLS or equivalent combination of education and
experience. Demonstrated proficiency with: GIS software, spatial data,
FGDC and ISO metadata standards, and database design. Ability to work in
a collaborative environment; potential to excel as an instructor;
appreciation of GIS potential in an academic environment; and problem
solving and analytical skills.
