+++
nid = "1570"
jid = "00026"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1570"
title = "Research Data\nSpecialist (Data Librarian)"
employer = "Tilburg University (the Netherlands)"
employerurl = "http://www.tilburguniversity.nl/"
postdate = "2006-11-08"
archivedate = "2006-11-20"
draft = "false"
+++
We are looking for an enthusiastic, pro-active colleague to facilitate
and assist in the (re)use of qualitative and quantitative research data,
in close cooperation with researchers and research groups.

Important tasks

-   You encourage easy access to and publication of research data
    generated at Tilburg University.
-   You assist and coordinate placing these data sets in scientific
    context and in archiving them.
-   You are actively involved in acquisition of and providing access to
    external data sets.
-   You play an active role in supporting students and staff using data
    sets.
-   You actively contribute to development of data archiving and
    publication at international level.

Your work is closely related to the scientific research at Tilburg
University. A close cooperation between you and the researchers and
research groups is therefore mandatory.

The gross monthy salary depends on education, age, and experience, and
amounts to at most GBP 4.140,= gross per month when working full-time
(salary scale 11, function profile Information and Collection
Specialist, level 1). Tilburg University offers an excellent employment
package. The position is offered for one year and may be extended into a
permanent contract.
  
You have completed an academic degree course. You have several years of
research experience, preferably in the social or economic sciences. You
have been deeply involved in data acquisition and data analysis. You
have proven experience with software packages for statistical analysis,
such as SPSS. You are customer-driven, and have excellent oral and
written communicative skills, both in Dutch and in English. You have a
communicative, cooperative, and service-oriented attitude.
