+++
nid = "1564"
jid = "00021"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1564"
title = "Social Science Libraries and Information Services Director"
employer = "Yale University Library"
employerurl = "http://www.library.yale.edu/"
postdate = "2006-10-02"
archivedate = "2006-12-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The University Library is a highly valued partner in teaching and
research at the heart of the University. It has more than 12.5 million
volumes housed in the Sterling Memorial Library and 21 school and
department libraries, as well as a vast range of special collections
that together make it one of the world's leading research libraries. It
employs a dynamic and innovative staff of some 600 FTE who have the
opportunity to work with the highest caliber of faculty and students,
participate on committees and be involved in other areas of staff
development. A full spectrum of library resources, from rare books and
manuscripts to a rapidly expanding network of electronic resources,
constitutes one of Yale's distinctive strengths. The Library is engaged
in numerous ambitious projects such as the renovation of the main
library building and various automation projects, which include network
access to scholarly information and preservation imaging.

The Yale Library seeks a creative leader to manage and transform the
delivery of the many social science and management information resources
and services available to Yale's faculty and students. At a time when
new information technologies and services are changing the nature of
teaching and research in the social sciences, the Director of Social
Science Libraries and Information Services must envision and
aggressively implement innovative and responsive services for the use of
textual, numeric, geographic and other kinds of social science
information located at Yale and elsewhere. The successful candidate will
find at Yale an invigorating environment in which to pursue these goals.
Yale's faculty and administration have demonstrated long-standing
support for the Library and they have embraced ambitious plans for the
development and use of information technologies that the Library has
developed in partnership with Yale's Information Technology Services

The Director of Social Science Libraries and Information Services is
responsible for cultivating close collaborative relationships with the
faculty, students and researchers in Yale social science departments,
the School of Management, and related academic programs and research
centers; building, coordinating and improving access to Yale's rich and
varied social science collections, including government information,
economic growth and data archive materials; guiding the growth and
development of networked information for teaching and research; and
strengthening the alliance among the Library and various campus
computing organizations, particularly Yale's Statistical Laboratory.

The Director of Social Science Libraries and Information Services will
administer the staff and resources of Yale's Social Science Library and
its affiliated units, including the Government Documents and Information
Center and the Seeley G. Mudd Library. The staff includes 7 librarians
and 15 library assistants, plus student workers. The duties of the
Director encompass programmatic planning, personnel management and staff
development, budget administration, collection and resource development,
facilities planning, oversight of technical processing and document
delivery, and education and research services, including circulation,
instruction in access to library and information resources, and
reference. The Director articulates departmental goals and objectives
and provides leadership in configuring effective library and information
services and collections for the social sciences, including the life
cycle management of digital assets in the social sciences at Yale
University. The Director facilitates and promotes the effective
collaboration and teamwork of multiple levels of employees and units in
a diverse workplace.

The Director serves as Library liaison for the international studies and
international relations programs through the Macmillan Center for
International and Area Studies, is an Ad Hoc member of the International
Affairs Council, serves as Library liaison to political science or
another academic social science department, and is responsible for the
growth and development of the Economic Growth Center collection. The
Director of Social Science Libraries and Information Services is also
responsible for creating strong partnerships with Library curators and
bibliographers, with the heads of departments in the Library, the
digital library initiatives, the Office of International Students and
Scholars, and other social science information service professionals and
organizations around the world. The Director contributes to the
effective planning and management of Library-wide operations through
various activities, including participation in the Library's Management
Council, and engages in University wide planning and operations
activities as appropriate. The Director reports to the Associate
University Librarian for Integrated Library Systems and Technical
Services. The Director is expected to remain current with and anticipate
developments in social science research, methodology and scholarship and
to participate actively in professional organizations in librarianship
or information science.
  
-   An advanced degree in the social sciences, an MLS from an
    ALA-accredited library school, or equivalent combination of relevant
    experience and training.
-   Eight years of professional experience with demonstrated
    administrative and managerial achievement.
-   Creative and dynamic leadership abilities, including flexibility,
    openness, motivation, encouragement, and teamwork.
-   Strong service orientation.
-   Excellent grasp of the information needs of social scientists and
    business faculty of the application of information technologies,
    including an awareness of current developments and trends.
-   Excellent analytical and organization skills.
-   Excellent oral and written communication skills.
-   Demonstrated ability to work well independently and with others in a
    rapidly changing and demanding environment.
-   For appointment at the Librarian V level, minimum of twelve years
    professional library experience and demonstrated professional
    accomplishments.
