+++
nid = "1565"
jid = "00019"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1565"
title = "Statistical Support Specialist"
employer = "Social Science Research Services/Instructional Technology Group,"
employerurl = "http://www.yale.edu/statlab"
postdate = "2006-08-29"
archivedate = "2006-10-29"
draft = "false"
+++
Position Description: The Yale University Social Science Statistical
Laboratory (StatLab) seeks a data management and quantitative analysis
specialist to perform the following duties: Provide faculty and students
with consulting, user support and training in relevant applications and
tools. Provide expertise and support for research design, computational
projects and applications with large statistical and/or geospatial
datasets. As part of ITS Academic Media and Technology: Design and
implement long term Social Science Quantitative initiatives for the
university. Provide guidance at all stages of the research process on
discipline-related needs including statistical, geospatial and database
management skills. Support users of teaching and research facilities;
assist with managing, analyzing and producing projects with statistical
and/or geospatial datasets. Develop online documentation and training
materials relevant to statistics and data management. Help manage
workshops and consulting services for faculty, students and StatLab
consultants.
  
Bachelor's degree in the Social Sciences, Information Science or
related fields and four years of experience in an academic teaching or
research environment, or equivalent combination of education and
experience. Experience with advanced statistics and/or geospatial
analysis, methodology and related software. Posses firm understanding of
technical applications in statistical research and instruction. Strongly
preferred: Masters degree, statistical consulting experience and/or
quantitative teaching in the Social Sciences. Experience managing
websites relating to statistics, data resources, geospatial and/or
social science computing. Knowledge of and experience with GIS,
statistical analysis software, databases and data management. Ability to
manage and prioritize multiple projects simultaneously. Preferred:
experience with HTML/XML, UNIX, network protocols, Perl, PHP, and Java
programming.
