+++
nid = "1569"
jid = "00025"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1569"
title = "Geospatial Data Librarian"
employer = "Emory University Libraries"
employerurl = "http://web.library.emory.edu/"
postdate = "2006-10-27"
archivedate = "2006-12-27"
draft = "false"
+++
The Emory University Libraries invites applications for a new geospatial
data librarian to provide GIS (geographic information systems) services
to the Emory community. The successful candidate will have experience
with geographic data in both digital and print form. The new librarian
will have the opportunity to establish centralized GIS services. He/she
will be part of the Electronic Data Center and will collaborate with
subject librarians, the librarys Digital Programs and Systems division,
and the universitys Academic and Administrative Information Technologies
division. The librarian will interact extensively with faculty and
students across the university, e.g. the School of Public Health, the
Office of University and Community Partnerships, and departments such as
Environmental Studies, Sociology, and Political Science. While the focus
of this position will be primarily on geospatial data, the librarian
will also serve as a resource for a small print map collection, provide
some assistance to users in need of quantitative data, and participate
in other work of the center.

Responsibilities: In providing service to Emory faculty and students
(graduate and undergraduate), the new geospatial data librarian will:

-   Identify, access, and manage geospatial data sources and attribute
    data for both academic and applied research, and for instruction
    needs;
-   Build the librarys collection of geospatial data holdings and
    related attribute data as well as identify and acquire maps needed
    for teaching and research;
-   Provide instruction sessions, including overviews of GIS resources
    available at the library; conduct specialized workshops on
    particular topics in using GIS software (e.g. geocoding, working
    with coordinate systems etc.);
-   Promote the integration of GIS and maps into teaching and research;
-   Develop web applications for searching and/or distribution of
    geospatial data in consultation with the librarys Digital Programs
    and Systems Division;
-   Collaborate on the development and implementation of library and
    university projects that involve use of geospatial data; and,
-   Assist the coordinator of the Electronic Data Center in providing
    service to users in need of quantitative data and participate in
    other work of the center.
  
Required: Advanced degree in either library/information science or a
relevant subject field; relevant work experience in an academic or
research institution. Knowledge of public and proprietary resources for
national and international geospatial data; advanced skills in
management and analysis of geospatial data; advanced knowledge of ESRIs
desktop GIS software (i.e., ArcGIS/ArcView); and, knowledge of relevant
metadata standards (e.g. FGDC, DDI) for geospatial data. Demonstrated
interest in participating in professional activities.

Preferred: Knowledge of Arc-IMS or other applications for web-based GIS
services; basic familiarity with ArcINFO; and basic familiarity with
software for statistical analysis (e.g. SAS, SPSS, and/or Stata).
Experience with other desktop GIS programs (e.g. Maptitude); experience
working with quantitative data sources of use for the social sciences;
and experience working with print map collections.
