+++
nid = "1563"
jid = "00022"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1563"
title = "Director of Archival Operations"
employer = "Harvard University"
employerurl = "http://www.harvard.edu/"
postdate = "2006-10-16"
archivedate = "2006-12-16"
draft = "false"
+++
Reporting to the Associate Director of the Harvard-MIT Data Center, this
position is responsible for establishing the next generation of best
practices for digital data archiving and for the general management of
the expanding Murray Research Archive(MRA). Provide technical and
administrative leadership for the success of key digital preservation
infrastructure; perform substantial research in archival best practices;
contribute significantly to the development of new international best
practices and standards; develop plans, policies, and procedures related
to these standards; and manage, train, and mentor MRA staff in archiving
standards and practices. Represent the MRA to other groups within IQSS
and Harvard, and to other institutions--evangelizing best archival
practice, providing public outreach through presentations and
participation in leading preservation bodies and conferences, and
managing the operation of multi-year/multi-institution archival
projects. Responsible for identifying and pursuing extant data
collections in all fields of the social sciences and arranging for their
deposit into the Murray Research Archive.
  
Masters Degree in library science, informatics, information management,
or computer science. Demonstrated knowledge and understanding of the
social sciences (undergraduate social science degree preferred). Strong
research and analytic abilities. A minimum of 8 years of experience in
library or academic computing, preferably in a large university or
research institution and demonstrated professional accomplishments.
Experience with metadata standards, such as AACR2, DDI, Thesaurae, ISO
and other controlled vocabularies; experience scripting in Perl, XSLT,
SPSS, R, and SQL. Extensive understanding of digital preservation.
Well-developed interpersonal skills, and experience working with faculty
and staff in an academic community . Excellent analytical, oral, and
written communication skills.
