+++
nid = "1558"
jid = "00014"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1558"
title = "Data Services Specialist"
employer = "Princeton University Library"
employerurl = "http://library.princeton.edu/"
postdate = "2006-01-23"
archivedate = "2007-02-28"
draft = "false"
+++
Provides statistical and software consulting services for
undergraduates, graduate students and faculty engaged in quantitative
analysis of machine-readable data in a variety of academic disciplines,
particularly economics, finance, sociology, and politics. Assists in the
choice, application, and interpretation of quantitative methods, and
with the use of statistical software needed to implement these methods.
Retrieves/manipulates complex data from a variety of physical sources,
including CD-ROMs and Internet archives; transfers data between
platforms for use in multiple computing environments, including UNIX and
Windows; provides extracts/tables based on electronic data, including
government census/survey data and public opinion polls. Engages in
individual consultation and group instruction. Maintains web presence,
including creation of documentation. Maintains server functionality,
including a data files catalog and clients database. Evaluates and
designs web-based access tools and end user systems. Maintains efficient
operation of the Data and Statistical Services Lab and Princeton's
digital data archive. Processes data and creates metadata for files in
the data archive. For more detail on Data and Statistical Services,
consult [dss.princeton.edu](http://dss.princeton.edu/).
  
Required: Master's degree and expertise with at least one major
statistical package, e.g., SAS, SPSS, Splus, Stata, Matlab. Strong
background in computing and quantitative data analysis.

Preferred: Advanced degree in a quantitative social science or
equivalent experience; experience in using complex machine-readable
data; programming ability; some UNIX/server administration background;
experience with Survey Documentation and Analysis (SDA) and/or Nesstar.
Demonstrated ability and experience functioning successfully in a
fast-paced environment with a strong service orientation.

Desirable: MLS from ALA accredited library school. Advanced Perl, MySQL,
and CGI knowledge.
