+++
nid = "1560"
jid = "00020"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1560"
title = "Data and Government Information Librarian"
employer = "Brock University"
employerurl = "http://www.brocku.ca/library"
postdate = "2006-09-22"
archivedate = "2006-11-30"
draft = "false"
+++
Brock University's James A. Gibson Library seeks an innovative, dynamic
and self-directed Data and Government Information Librarian to provide
leadership to the Brock community in data services and government
information, and to serve as the subject specialist librarian for
Political Science and Labour Studies. Reporting to the Head, Reference
Information Services, the incumbent will be responsible for the
development of relevant data collections, for supporting the data
research needs of faculty, graduate and undergraduate students in Social
Science and Applied Health Science disciplines, and for providing
instruction in the effective use of data resources. The Data and
Government Information Librarian will have an exciting opportunity to
develop the Library.s data program and build on existing data services,
working to raise data/statistical literacy levels on campus. S/he will
collaborate with faculty to integrate data literacy into the curricula
of relevant courses, and will develop data subsets and other teaching
tools to facilitate the use of data for instructional purposes. The
incumbent will collaborate with the Map Library in the development and
delivery of data services, will serve as the official contact for the
Data Liberation Initiative, and will participate in organizations such
as the Canadian Association of Public Data Users. S/he will have
responsibility for the government documents collection and will act as a
resource for Canadian and international government information, with an
emphasis on Canadian government. As subject specialist for Political
Science and Labour Studies, the incumbent will provide reference,
collection development, instruction and faculty liaison support. The
incumbent will also provide general reference service through scheduled
duty at the Reference Information Desk.

Work Environment: Located at the centre of Canada's beautiful Niagara
Peninsula, just over one hour from Toronto, Brock offers an exciting
work environment with strong undergraduate, graduate and
interdisciplinary programs and a vigorous research culture. The
University Library provides information resources and services to a user
community of approximately 17,000 students and 600 faculty. For further
details about the Library, visit www.brocku.ca/library.

Brock University offers a competitive salary and an attractive benefits
package. This is a full-time probationary position leading to
permanence. Salary and rank will be commensurate with experience and
qualifications. The position is included in the Brock University Faculty
Association. The review of applications will begin October 16, 2006 with
a preferred start date of January 1, 2007.
  
Required Qualifications: Master's degree from an ALA accredited library
program or its equivalent, with an educational background in the Social
Sciences. An extensive knowledge of data resources and statistical data
methodology, with significant experience or formal training in the use
of data sets. Knowledge of relevant metadata schemes, and technologies
related to web delivery of specialized resources. Familiarity with
government publications and emerging trends in documents librarianship.
Knowledge of scholarly information resources in general, with an
emphasis on the Social Sciences, and a particular focus on those that
support Brock University.s Political Science and Labour Studies
programs. Proven reference, teaching and communication skills. Evidence
of professional initiative, flexibility, and leadership potential.
Ability to work effectively in a collegial setting.

Preferred Qualifications: Knowledge of legal resources and research
methods. Familiarity with the Beyond 20/20 data browser, SPSS and/or
SAS. A Master's degree in the Social Sciences an asset.
