+++
nid = "1572"
jid = "00029"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1572"
title = "Maps and State Documents Librarian"
employer = "Northwestern University Library"
employerurl = "http://www.library.northwestern.edu/"
postdate = "2006-11-27"
archivedate = "2007-01-27"
draft = "false"
+++
ENVIRONMENT: The Government and Geographic Information and Data Services
Department is a strong service-oriented component of the Public Services
Division. The collection consists of over two million items including
paper and electronic resources, data files, microfiche, and sheet maps.
The Department is a designated depository for the publications of the
United States Government (since 1876, currently selects 80%), United
Nations, European Union, and the World Tourism Organization and the
State of Illinois. The staff consists of five librarians, 4.5 support
staff and varying numbers of student assistants. Northwestern
University's Evanston campus is located on the shore of Lake Michigan
fifteen miles north of downtown Chicago and has an enrollment of 14,000
students.

RESPONSIBILITIES: Reporting to the Head, Government and Geographic
Information and Data Services, the Map and State Documents Librarian is
responsible for collection management and services of the paper maps,
digital geospatial resources, and state of Illinois documents
collections. Develops and maintains relevant departmental web pages.
Performs acquisitions and cataloging of maps. Works with appropriate
faculty to plan and implement user education and outreach programs.
Plans and implements staff training programs related to maps, GIS and
state documents. Identifies preservation needs of materials in relevant
collections. Actively participates in the planning, decision-making, and
continuing innovation of the department's services and programs. Shares
responsibility for providing quality reference service at the
department's desk including evening and weekend hours. Professional
development in maps and GIS is expected. Other duties as assigned.
  
REQUIRED: MLS from an ALA-accredited institution or equivalent
combination of education and relevant library experience. The successful
candidate will have experience with geographic data in both digital and
print form. Experience working with map collections and services. Must
be a highly motivated self-starter with excellent communication skills
who can work cooperatively and effectively with staff and users in an
ever-changing environment. Demonstrated commitment to providing quality
reference service. Ability to work in a highly collaborative
environment. Willingness to participate in professional activities
related to maps and GIS.

PREFERRED: Undergraduate and/or graduate degree in geography or related
field. Professional experience in the acquisitions and cataloging of
maps and spatial data resources. Experience with government resources in
all formats.
