+++
nid = "1592"
jid = "00051"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1592"
title = "Director/Sr. Research Associate for the Cornell Institute for So"
employer = "Cornell Institute for Social and Economic Research (CISER)"
employerurl = "http://www.ciser.cornell.edu/"
postdate = "2007-10-16"
archivedate = "2007-12-01"
draft = "false"
+++
In consultation with the Vice Provost for the Social Sciences and
CISER's faculty advisory committee, the CISER Director provides
strategic leadership for all aspects of the operation. The primary focus
must be on providing computing and data resources that anticipate
researchers' future needs. Accomplishing this goal will require the
Director to demonstrate leadership in articulating goals, program
planning and budget administration, human resource and operations
management, and communication and marketing.

Responsibilities Include:

Strategic planning and budgeting: Develop, implement, evaluate, and
revise CISER's strategic plan consistent with the overall vision and
funding. The strategic plan and annual budget will identify demand for
CISER resources and programs, and ensure the continuing financial health
of CISER operations.

Human resource management: Staff, steward, manage and report on the
organization with transparency and integrity. This involves supporting
the professional development of employees; creating and maintaining a
work environment that builds talent to ensure the continuity of
leadership for CISER; providing performance management through feedback
and coaching; and addressing performance issues in a timely and
responsible manner. The Director participates in the hiring process as
appropriate.

Management of CISER operations: Responsible for managing the operations
including, the Cornell Census Research Data Center (RDC), the Cornell
Restricted Access Data Center (CRADC), computing systems support, data
archive services, data analysis software workshops and consulting
services, and administrative services. The Director determines the
overall organizational structure for CISER operations, and ensures that
users' research needs are met efficiently.

Research and publication: Sustain relationships with appropriate
external academic and research communities. This can include
peer-reviewed publications, conference presentations, participation in
annual meetings, research workshop presentations, and research
collaborations. Sponsored academic research is not required, but the
Director may participate in sponsored projects housed in other units of
the University with the permission of the Vice Provost for Social
Sciences.
  
Degree and Experience Requirements:

-   PhD degree in sociology, economics, psychology, political science,
    statistics, or a related field with a quantitative focus.
-   At least 10 years of experience.
-   Demonstrated technical, administrative, and leadership skills are
    essential.
-   Ability to serve as technical/discipline resource, providing
    content, methodological and strategic input.

Necessary Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities

-   Proven ability to lead staff and organizations in new and creative
    directions, including ability to articulate the vision for those
    directions.
-   Demonstrated communication and relationship-building skills.
-   Demonstrated experience in program management and supervision.
-   Knowledge of effective management practices and procedures including
    working knowledge of fiscal planning, budget management, and
    personnel management.
-   Working knowledge of state-of-the-art technology and ability to
    apply it in administrative and research contexts.
-   Flexible and cooperative approach to problem solving.
-   Commitment to diversity and to creating an organizational culture
    that appreciates and respects differences.
-   Ability to handle sensitive and confidential information with
    discretion and tact.
-   Excellent judgment and high level of initiative are critical.

Term of Appointment and Re-appointment Review

-   The Director will be appointed to a fixed term contract for five
    years.
-   The Director's performance will be reviewed annually by the Vice
    Provost for Social Sciences.
-   The Director may be re-appointed to additional five-year contracts.
-   The review for re-appointment will occur during the Directors fourth
    year and the decision to renew will be made at that time.
