+++
nid = "1578"
jid = "00032"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1578"
title = "Project Co-Director\nTerrorism Survey Data Archive Project"
employer = "University of Maryland, ICPSR, U.S. Department of Homeland Secur"
employerurl = ""
postdate = "2007-04-04"
archivedate = "2007-05-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) in collaboration with the
University of Maryland's National Consortium for the Study of Terrorism
and Responses to Terrorism (START, a DHS Center of Excellence) and the
University of Michigan's Inter-university Consortium for Political and
Social Research (ICPSR) seek a post-doctoral researcher to assist in
establishing the Terrorism Data Resource Center (TDRC). The TDRC is
forthcoming archive housing national and international data and related
research materials about terrorism and homeland security and
preparedness. Included within the TDRC will be the Terrorism and
Preparedness Survey Archive, focused on data from relevant surveys
conducted around the world. This post-doctoral opportunity will focus on
facilitating research through finding, documenting, and integrating data
collected in different contexts. The National Institute of Justice, DHS,
and the National Science Foundation support the TDRC.

JOB DUTIES:

While stationed at ICPSR, the post-doc will work collaboratively with
scientist and archive staff across ICPSR and START to develop and
implement the internet based information technology necessary to
improves access and use of this collection. The Post-doc will work with
ICPSR staff and in consultation with START staff on meta-data
classification efforts, and conduct user testing and analyses using data
from the archives.. This individual will fulfill the archive design and
programming component. Fraction of Time:

This position is a full time appointment for 12 months starting ASAP.
The salary and benefits are funded by the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security and administered by the Oak Ridge Institute for Science and
Education (ORISE), in support of START's research mission. The selected
candidate will work at ICPSR in Ann Arbor, Michigan and will be
classified at the University of Michigan as a Research Scholar Trainee.
  
MINIMAL QUALIFICATIONS:
A Ph.D. in information science, computer science, or a related field is
preferred, other advanced graduate students may also be considered.

DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS:
This position requires a scholar/developer with a background in using
emerging digital repository and data management technologies (Relational
Database Management Systems (RDBMs), knowledge of information
architecture, meta-data standards, HTML/XML/ XSLT, and digital
repository technologies and experience programming in Perl/cgi or
java/tomcat in a Linux environment for deployment. Additionally, it
would be helpful to have experience working with social science data.
