+++
nid = "1583"
jid = "00039"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1583"
title = "Head, Government and Geographic Information and Data\nServices"
employer = "Northwestern University Library"
employerurl = "http://www.library.northwestern.edu/"
postdate = "2007-07-19"
archivedate = "2007-08-30"
draft = "false"
+++
Northwestern University Library seeks energetic, creative and
user-oriented candidates for the Head, Government and Geographic
Information and Data Services Department position. The increasingly
digital future of government information will require the head to
develop innovative methods of promoting and delivering government and
geographic information and data services to the university community.
The department head has primary responsibility for providing leadership,
vision and administration for the Department. Establishes goals,
objectives, policies and procedures and allocates resources of the
department; plans and implements departmental programs which enable
faculty, students, and the public to be aware of and effectively use the
collections; directs and participates in the department's daily
operations and services. The Head of Government and Geographic
Information and Data Services is a key member of the Public Services
Division management team and participates in the Library Management
Council, an advisory body to the University Librarian.
  
Required: An MLS from an ALA accredited library school or equivalent
combination of education and relevant library experience. Minimum of
four years government documents experience in an academic, research or
large public library including supervisory experience. Knowledge of the
Federal Depository Library Program. Experience with government
information sources in all tangible and electronic formats. Excellent
communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work effectively with
all levels of staff and users in a challenging and rapidly changing
environment. Demonstrated commitment to government publications
librarianship and quality user services. The candidate should possess a
working knowledge of current and emerging technological developments to
enhance user services. Northwestern University Library, one of the
oldest and largest designated U.S. government document depositories in
the nation, is also a depository for State of Illinois, United Nations,
European Union and World Tourism Organization publications in all
formats. The Department provides data services through the Social
Science Data Services unit and digital mapping services including GIS.
