+++
nid = "1584"
jid = "00046"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1584"
title = "State Economic Forecaster / Senior Research Professor of Economi"
employer = "University of Arkansas at Little Rock"
employerurl = "http://www.iea.ualr.edu/"
postdate = "2007-08-08"
archivedate = "2007-09-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The College of Business at the University of Arkansas at Little Rock
(UALR)'[s Institute for Economic Advancement (IEA) is seeking a Senior
Research Professor of Economics, with extensive forecasting experience,
to conduct and lead statewide and regional forecasting activities. Main
duties include maintaining and operating the state econometric model.
Publishing quarterly forecasts in the Arkansas Economic Outlook and
presenting the state forecast at the semiannual forecast conferences.

In addition to the forecasting project the successful candidate must
have training and experience in regional economics, public policy, and
applied statistics. Additional duties include conducting applied
research, writing grant proposals, applying for research contracts,
preparing reports for state agencies, and publishing research results in
academic journals. Presentations to various groups around the state will
be required, along with other media obligations. Expertise and
experience with oral and written communication is necessary to present
analytical results to general business, governmental audiences, and the
press.

Teaching in the College of Business is also encouraged but not required.
There is both an expectation and support for an independent research
agenda in one or more of the following economic areas: urban and
regional, labor, economic development, and forecasting.
  
A PhD degree in economics is required, experience with applied
econometrics and urban or regional economics preferred, excellent
written communications skills, including the ability to quickly prepare
drafts of reports and research papers.
