+++
nid = "1576"
jid = "00031"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1576"
title = "Data Services Librarian"
employer = "Western Illinois University"
employerurl = "http://www.wiu.edu/"
postdate = "2007-02-15"
archivedate = "2007-04-02"
draft = "false"
+++
RESPONSIBILITIES: As part of WIU Libraries. transformation into a
digital information commons the Data Services Librarian plans, develops,
and delivers spatial and numeric data resources and services across the
university. The Data Services Librarian is responsible for the continued
development of the Library GIS/map services. Working closely with
library colleagues the Data Services Librarian participates in the
selection, organization, and delivery of data collections and supports
the development of undergraduate and graduate statistical literacy
skills through reference and instruction. Other responsibilities
include: serves as liaison to academic departments and extension
services such as the Illinois Institute for Rural Affairs and Kibbe Life
Science Station; works collaboratively with the Government Documents
Librarian to assure access to state, federal, and international
government information data resources; participates in departmental and
library planning; and serves on library-wide and University committees,
task forces, and teams.

RANK & SALARY: 12 month, tenure-track position, with a minimum annual
salary of $ 62,338 as an assistant professor. Western Illinois
University offers a competitive benefits package that includes domestic
partner benefits. For full benefit information visit
http://www.wiu.edu/hr/benefits.shtml WIU Faculty are members of an
AFT-affiliated collective bargaining campus.
  
QUALIFICATIONS: ALA-accredited master.s degree. A sixth-year specialist
degree in librarianship or an advanced/professional degree must be
completed within one year of initial appointment. Public service
experience. Excellent oral and written communication skills.

PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS: Demonstrated experience with using spatial and
numeric data sets and with analytical data and software packages, such
as GIS, SAS and/or SPSS. Demonstrated experience providing reference and
bibliographic instruction in an academic library and with appropriate
technologies to provide interdisciplinary data information support.
