+++
nid = "1580"
jid = "00037"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1580"
title = "Data Services Librarian"
employer = "University of California, San Diego"
employerurl = "http://orpheus.ucsd.edu/"
postdate = "2007-05-25"
archivedate = "2007-06-15"
draft = "false"
+++
The Libraries of the University of California, San Diego (UCSD) seek
applications from innovative and user-oriented library professionals to
join the enthusiastic staff of the The Social Sciences and Humanities
Library in the development of data services and collections. The UCSD
Libraries are committed to making access to research information for
faculty and students as efficient and convenient as technology,
innovation, and resources will allow.

The University and the Libraries

With a current enrollment of more than 26,000 students, UCSD is a
powerful magnet for those seeking a fresh innovative approach to
education and research. In just four decades, the campus has achieved
international distinction for its educational excellence, research
strength and institutional flexibility. Ranked fifth in the nation and
first in the University of California system in federal R&D funding,
UCSD annually attracts more than $627 million in research awards. The
National Research Council ranks the campus 10th nationally in the
excellence of its graduate programs and quality of its faculty. US News
& World Report ranks UCSD 7th nationally among public national
universities. UCSD has entered a period of major growth with planned
enrollment expected to reach 28,365 by 2010. The UCSD Libraries are
widely recognized as integral partners in the development and provision
of innovative, responsive, and effective information services vital to
the University's instructional and research enterprise.

The UCSD Libraries, a member of the Association of Research Libraries,
consist of nine campus libraries with combined collections of more than
three million volumes. Integrated services dependent on information
technology are a hallmark of the UCSD Libraries. Recent projects include
desktop delivery of journal articles, network delivery of digital audio,
multilingual character interfaces, patron initiated interlibrary loan,
wireless network access, and a vigorous and ambitious Digital Library
Program. Components of the information infrastructure include INNOPAC,
the integrated library system; the UCSD campus web site; and the UCSD
Libraries web site, an integrated portal for access to library
collections and services. UCSD works actively and collaboratively with
the other nine UC libraries and the California Digital Library to
develop and manage shared collections and services available to all UC
faculty and students.

The Social Sciences & Humanities Library

The Social Sciences and Humanities Library comprises the research
collections for the social sciences and humanities. The collections
consist of approximately 1.5 million volumes, over 3,000 current
serials, a government documents collection of nearly one million pieces,
and a reference collection of 40,000 volumes. The Social Sciences Data
Collection (SSDC), part of SSHL, provides access to numeric data from
various sources, including ICPSR, and makes available tools to identify,
locate, and manipulate the data. The staff of SSHL is comprised of 20
librarians, 47 career staff, and approximately 21 FTE student employees.
The Library provides a full range of services, including information and
reference services, outreach and bibliographic instruction, development
and delivery of collection resources for patrons of the collections,
circulation, billing, interlibrary loan, course reserves, security, and
stacks maintenance.

Responsibilities of the Position

Reporting to the Head for Data, Government and Geographic Information
Services, assumes a leadership role in planning and developing data
services and collections at UCSD. Evaluates, selects, and acquires data
products for the Social Science Data Collection (SSDC). Provides
consultations and instruction on finding and using data. Works closely
with faculty to determine data needs and discovery tools. Actively
collaborates with library liaisons to academic departments to develop
and provide coordinated services to meet the full range of social
science data needs at UCSD. Plans and implements staff training programs
related to data. Serves as the liaison to ICPSR and DDI initiatives.
Provides general reference assistance at a combined social sciences/
humanities and government documents reference desk. Some evening and
weekend reference hours required. Represent the UCSD Libraries at
pertinent meetings and conferences. UCSD Librarians are expected to
participate in library-wide planning and professional activities
appropriate to their position. Appointment at the Librarian rank
requires substantial relevant experience and superior qualifications.

Preferred appointment level: Assistant Librarian I - Librarian I with an
approximate salary range of $40,008-$66,756. In addition to a
technologically state-of-the-art and intellectually stimulating
environment, UCSD offers a highly competitive compensation package that
includes choices for medical, dental and optical programs; excellent
retirement programs; tax-savings programs; life, automobile and
short/long-term disability insurance; relocation reimbursement;
outstanding recreational facilities; innovative training programs;
generous professional development funding; domestic partner benefits;
and on-campus childcare.

Librarians at UCSD are academic appointees and entitled to appropriate
professional leave and all other perquisites granted to non-faculty
academic personnel. Applicants interested in employment opportunities
for spouses/partners are encouraged to consider the UCSD Academic Job
Opportunities Bulletin, the UCSD Staff Employment Opportunity Bulletin,
or employment opportunities at other education and research institutions
in San Diego.
  
Required Qualifications

-   Professional degree from a library school or other appropriate
    degree or equivalent experience in one or more fields relevant to
    library services.
-   Experience working with numeric data resources, including the
    ability to install and support relevant software applications.
-   Ability to download and transform data files to meet the various
    needs of users.
-   Proficient with social sciences statistical packages and software,
    such as SAS and SPSS.
-   Experience working with users to provide data services support.
-   Ability to develop effective relationships with the library and
    campus IT departments.
-   Demonstrated knowledge of a wide range of print and electronic
    reference and bibliographic tools in the social sciences.
-   Experience in collection development activities in an academic
    library.
-   Experience using government information.
-   Superior organizational, analytical, and communication skills.
-   Candidate must have a strong commitment to excellence in service and
    be able to work both independently and collaboratively in a complex
    changing environment.
-   Potential to excel in a dynamic, academically challenging
    environment.

UCSD librarians are expected to participate in library-wide and
system-wide planning and governance, and to be professionally active.

Desirable Qualifications

-   Undergraduate and/or graduate degree in the social sciences.
-   Experience providing reference service in an academic or research
    library serving similar clientele.
-   Experience with GIS data and applications
