+++
nid = "1589"
jid = "00047"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1589"
title = "Data Analyst"
employer = "The College Board"
employerurl = "http://collegeboard.com/"
postdate = "2007-08-30"
archivedate = "2007-09-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The College Board, a national educational organization, is hiring Data
Analysts for our Research & Analysis division based in New York.
Reporting to the Director of Research Data Services, Data Analysts will
be responsible for compiling and preparing data for grant-funded,
education-based math and science programs.

Data Analysts will perform data aggregations for analysis, enhance
quality control efforts, and provide ongoing support for the National
Math and Science Institute (NMSI) grant-funded project as well as for
related requests for data.

Key activities include creating templates and preparing spreadsheets;
generating statistical analyses and performing data aggregations;
working with large databases of program data and mappings; writing ad
hoc queries and generating reports in a variety of formats; and
maintaining contact with NMSI counterparts as well as customers,
external researchers, consultants and vendors concerning the statistical
analyses and data aggregations related to this project.
  
Qualifications include a Bachelor's degree plus 5 years of relevant
work experience, or a Master's degree in social science, math, a
science or other analytical discipline, plus 2 or 3 years of relevant
experience. Requirements include proficiency in SQL, SAS and/or SPSS,
knowledge of statistical analysis, and ability to translate general
inquiries into specific research and analysis questions. Experience
working on large research projects involving data is preferred.

We seek candidates who have an exceptional ability to collaborate, who
are highly analytical in their approach to problem-solving, and who have
superior communication and interpersonal skills.

The College Board is a not-for-profit membership association whose
mission is to connect students to college success and opportunity.
Founded in 1900, the association is composed of more than 4,700 schools,
colleges, universities, and other educational organizations. Each year,
the College Board serves over three and a half million students and
their parents, 23,000 high schools, and 3,500 colleges through major
programs and services in college admissions, guidance, assessment,
financial aid, enrollment, and teaching and learning. Among its
best-known programs are the SAT, the PSAT/NMSQT, and the Advanced
Placement Program. The College Board is committed to the principles of
excellence and equity, and that commitment is embodied in all of its
programs, services, activities, and concerns.
