+++
nid = "1599"
jid = "00057"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1599"
title = "Timescapes Digital Repository Technical Officer"
employer = "University of Leeds"
employerurl = "http://www.leeds.ac.uk"
postdate = "2008-01-28"
archivedate = "2008-02-08"
draft = "false"
+++
This is an exciting opportunity for a skilled IT officer to support the
development of the Timescapes Qualitative Longitudinal Archive that will
house text and multimedia digital research data. The Archive will have
two components. First, an institutional digital repository at Leeds
University will provide for data processing, metadata preparation and
data sharing. Second, appropriately prepared data will periodically be
sent to the UK Data Archive at the University of Essex for long-term
preservation.

The Digital Repository Technical Officer will support all technical
facets of the Timescapes project: ingest of data and metadata, adapting
the repository software (Ex Libris' DigiTool) to manage research
materials, procedures for rights management, and support for the
development of an interface for dissemination of data from the
repository. With additional staff, the officer will also support data
depositors and secondary users. The IT officer will collaborate with
Timescapes team, the University of Leeds ISS team, and other repository
staff at the Leeds Library. There will also be extensive collaboration
with digital preservation specialists at the UK Data Archive. This is
primarily a technical post and applicants must be able to demonstrate
successful delivery of technical projects.
  
Educated to degree level, you will have excellent technical and
communication skills, including those necessary for creating the
architecture for an online resource, an interest in qualitative research
data and the ability to work as part of a team of social science
researchers. Occasional travel to consortium sites will be required.

This post is for a fixed term of 2 years with potential for renewal
dependant on funding.

University Grade 7 (£27,466 -- £32,796 p.a.) It is likely that an
appointment will not be made above £31,840 p.a. due to funding
limitations.
