+++
nid = "1607"
jid = "00067"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1607"
title = "Reference, Instruction, and Data Librarian"
employer = "University of California, Berkeley"
employerurl = "http://www.lib.berkeley.edu/BUSI/"
postdate = "2008-08-05"
archivedate = "2008-06-13"
draft = "false"
+++
The UC Berkeley Library is an internationally renowned research and
teaching facility at one of the nation's premiere public universities
that serves 23,000 undergraduates, 9,000 graduate students, and 1,500
faculty. Current collections include approximately 10 million volumes
and 56,000 current serial titles. Library facilities on the Berkeley
campus include the Doe/Moffitt Libraries, The Bancroft Library, the East
Asian Library and more than 20 additional libraries that serve specific
subject areas and the professional schools. The Library is a member of
the Center for Research Libraries, the Association of Research
Libraries, Online Computer Library Center (OCLC), and the Research
Libraries Group, and is an active participant in the California Digital
Library. The Library has a current operations budget of $58 million and
a current collections budget of $22 million, and employs nearly 400
full-time staff and more than 600 part-time students.

The Thomas J. Long Business & Economics Library is one of over 20
subject specialty libraries on the Berkeley campus. The Long Library is
located in the Haas School of Business, but reports to the University
Library. Its mission is to the serve the information needs of the over
2,000 students, faculty, and staff in the Haas School as well as other
campus departments needing business resources. The Long Library has over
160,000 print volumes, 1.4 million microforms, and thousands of serials
in electronic and print formats. A large selection of electronic
databases support the digital emphasis of the library. The staff
consists of 2.5 librarians, 2.8 library assistants, and 10-12 student
library employees. More information about the Long Library is available
at http://www.lib.berkeley.edu/BUSI/.

-   Serves as the lead reference and instruction librarian. Works
    closely with the one-half time Evening and Weekend MBA Librarian on
    teaching and reference services.
-   Provides reference assistance at least 10-hours per week.
-   Plans and executes course-related and informal instructional
    opportunities for students in the Haas School and other campus
    academic programs needing business information.
-   Provides specialized research consultation and instruction to
    students and faculty.
-   Works closely with other library instructional staff in the Library
    to
    -   Facilitate online library-related learning for Berkeley's
        diverse population through a variety of media;
    -   Design, develop, promote, and assess the effectiveness of
        curricular materials, tutorials and other learning objects;
    -   Provide technology training to colleagues;
    -   Investigate and experiment with emerging technologies that
        strengthen online instructional efforts in support of the
        curriculum.
-   Provides orientations, tours, lectures and develops web-based
    instructional and informational tools. Integrates library resources
    and services into the campus learning management systems, bSpace.
-   Serves as the unit's data specialist and works closely with Haas
    computing staff to offer faculty and students access to specialized
    numerical databases (WRDS, SDC, Datastream, Eventus, Yieldbook,
    etc.) Works closely with other data specialists in the Library to
    select and make available numerical resources of broader interest in
    the social sciences. Partners with them on training strategies and
    opportunities for students and faculty. Provides guidance to the CDL
    on current and future directions for systemwide data acquisition.
-   Provides training and updates on basic reference skills for two
    library assistants.
-   Assists the unit manager in evaluating and selecting digital
    resources for the collection.
-   Participates in the University of California's business and
    economics bibliographer's group with librarians from 9 other
    campuses.
-   Serves on a variety of University Library committees and task forces
    providing advice to the library administration.
  
***Required***

-   MLS from an ALA-accredited institution, or equivalent degree.
    (Candidates must complete work toward an MLS or its equivalent and
    be in receipt of the degree before they can achieve career status).
-   3-5 years professional librarian experience in public services in an
    academic or research library setting.
-   Demonstrated aptitude for teaching and developing user-oriented
    training and informational resources.
-   Demonstrated knowledge of print and electronic reference and
    bibliographic tools in business and economics
-   Previous experience with searching and assisting students and
    faculty with numerical data resources such as WRDS, SDC, Datastream,
    Bloomberg, etc. Development of self-instructional tools for learning
    and manipulating business data is essential.
-   Excellent interpersonal, communication, organizational and analytic
    skills.
-   Ability to work creatively, collaboratively and effectively both as
    a team member and independently.
-   Subject expertise, or previous reference experience, with business
    and economic resources in a research library setting.
-   Interest in and ability to forecast and plan for change in services
    to business school students and faculty.
-   Experience with a wide-variety of standard office and academic
    software packages.   Knowledge of HTML and other web page
    development skills.

***Preferred***

-   Demonstrated successful experience in library instructional programs
    and/or development of training materials.
-   Experience with integrating new technologies into the delivery of
    information services.
-   Record of active participation in the field of business
    librarianship through publishing, leadership of organizations,
    conference presentations, etc.
-   Previous successful experience working with business school
    computing services staff.
