+++
nid = "1600"
jid = "00056"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1600"
title = "Research Data Specialist"
employer = "Cornell University Libraries"
employerurl = "http://metadata.library.cornell.edu/"
postdate = "2008-01-28"
archivedate = "2008-02-29"
draft = "false"
+++
Cornell University Libraries (CUL) seeks an energetic and productive
staff member to join the Metadata Services Department <
http://metadata.library.cornell.edu/>. Under the supervision of the
Head of Metadata Services, the Research Data Specialist will play a key
role in shaping Cornell University Library's involvement in e-science,
digital data curation, and supporting cyberscholarship for all
disciplines. He or she will have the aptitude to stay abreast of
scientific research trends, data documentation tools, and standards
important for data exchange, reuse, and interoperability. Utilizing and
applying various information technology tools for metadata manipulation
and script execution is a key responsibility for this position. The
Research Data Specialist will work at the intersection of digital data,
technology, and metadata for the libraries. He or she will be
responsible for consultation, assessment, and support services to
facilitate all aspects of digital data curation. To be successful, close
collaboration will be essential in working with library staff devoted to
digital libraries, information technologies, public services, as well as
the data working group and constituents of the Cornell life sciences
initiative. The successful candidate will perform outreach and
facilitate communication between the Libraries and research groups on
all Cornell campuses.

Background: Cornell University is an Ivy League comprehensive research
university located in Ithaca in the scenic Finger Lakes region of
upstate New York. The town and university offer a unique cosmopolitan
and international atmosphere in a beautiful natural setting of
waterfalls, gorges, and lakes. The university comprises 14 schools with
2600 faculty members and 20,000 students enrolled in undergraduate,
graduate and professional schools. The Cornell University Library is a
vigorous professional organization of 468 staff with a strong track
record in innovation and service quality. It consists of 20 libraries,
including a nearby high-density storage facility with a capacity of 6.8
million volumes. It contains nearly 8 million printed volumes, 62,000
current serials, 378,000 networked electronic resources, and rich
materials in other formats. Ranking 9th among 113 North American
academic library members of the Association of Research Libraries, the
Library was a recipient of the Association of College and Research
Libraries' Excellence in Academic Libraries Award in 2002.

Benefits: Comprehensive benefits package including 22 vacation days, 11
paid holidays, health insurance, life insurance, and university
retirement contributions (TIAA-CREF and other options). Professional
travel funding available.
  
Required Qualifications: MLS or Masters degree in science. One year of
research laboratory experience. Ability to work well in a collaborative
team-based environment. Strong communication (oral and writing),
interpersonal, and presentation skills. Aptitude for and consistency in
detailed work. Ability to analyze and to solve problems creatively and
flexibly in a complex and rapidly changing environment. Strong service
orientation and interest in information users' values and needs.
Self-motivated and ability to multi-task. Expect to hire at the rank of
Assistant Librarian or Sr. Assistant Librarian. Assistant Librarian rank
is entry level for academic librarians with less than 5 years of
professional experience.

Desired Qualifications: Knowledge of computational tools and techniques
for data management and manipulation. Aptitude for learning digital
collection management, electronic resource management, and metadata
standards and formats. Familiarity with at least one of the following
metadata standards: Ecological Metadata Language (EML), Data
Documentation Initiative (DDI), and FGDC Biological Data Profile.
Familiarity with commonly used repository platforms (e.g. Fedora,
DSpace, ePrints). Ability to use various tools for metadata manipulation
and scripting. Experience with relational database design, XML/XSLT,
Java, Perl, Python, or PHP. Familiarity with Semantic Web specifications
and experience in XML DTD and W3C schema creation. Ability to write and
obtain grants and to manage grant-funded projects. Prior work experience
in an academic or special library.
