+++
nid = "1617"
jid = "00072"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1617"
title = "Senior Data and Support Services Officer"
employer = "UK Data Archive"
employerurl = "http://www.data-archive.ac.uk/"
postdate = "2008-09-10"
archivedate = "2008-10-15"
draft = "false"
+++
The person appointed will play a key role in the UK Data Archive's new
Secure Data Service (SDS) assisting users in locating, accessing and
using appropriate datasets from the UKDA online Data Catalogue, ensuring
access conditions are met, and providing advice on dataset content and
analysis. S/he would be involved in administering strict government
guidelines on accessing potentially disclosive data in a secure
environment; training users of the SDS how to use the system, what their
legal responsibilities are, and how to undertake simple statistical
disclosure assessments of outputs. S/he would be responsible for running
statistical disclosure checks on analytical outputs, liaising with the
service manager and data owners over complex cases. S/he would assist in
promoting the service, and would work closely with the User Services
team to ensure the SDS was seamlessly integrated with other UKDA data
services.
  
Candidates should be educated to degree level in the social sciences,
with an emphasis on quantitative data analysis. Experience in the
secondary analysis of large and complex datasets is essential, as is
familiarity with issues involved in statistical disclosure control.
Candidates should be highly computer and web literate, effective
communicators and team workers and able to prioritise competing demands.
Some experience in a user services environment is desirable. See below
for a link to the posting with a full job description, person
specification and further information relating to this post.
