+++
nid = "1610"
jid = "00064"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1610"
title = "Research Librarian (Data Services)"
employer = "Li Ka Shing Library, Singapore Management University"
employerurl = "http://library.smu.edu.sg/"
postdate = "2008-06-19"
archivedate = "2008-08-01"
draft = "false"
+++
This is a new position to create, develop and implement programs and
services for on-site and electronic access to data services primarily
for post graduate and honors undergraduate students that will be
integrated in the Digital Library with traditional library content.

Responsibilities:

1.  Design and implement a Data Services Centre
2.  Coordinate, purchase, organize and make accessible data materials
3.  Provide relevant research and reference services to graduate
    students and other students and faculty as needed
4.  Develop and present orientation and training programs in the use
    databases and tools
5.  Interact with faculty, students, staff and the community
6.  Create and maintain an interactive web page for the access and
    sharing of data that will become part of the Digital Library
7.  Market all Library Services
8.  Liaison with other academic units such as Centre for Academic
    Computing and Centre for Teaching and Learning
9.  Serve as SMU's representative with ICPSR
10. Integrate electronic data services into the Digital Library
    Initiative
  
1.  Masters level degree which includes research methodology, ABD or PhD
    preferably in one of the subject areas supporting the SMU schools or
    Masters in Library or Information Studies
2.  Experience in a research setting
3.  Demonstrated ability to develop and present instructional programs
4.  Ability to use statistical packages (preferably SPSS, SAS/STAT)
5.  Demonstrated ability to acquire, analyze and present data sets
6.  Excellent customer service skills
7.  Demonstrated ability to effectively search the internet and
    commercial databases
8.  Strong customer service orientation
9.  Knowledge of some web-authoring tool
10. Excellent interpersonal and communication skills
11. Ability to work positively, productively with diverse departments in
    an environment of rapid change
12. Ability to develop and maintain collaborative relations with faculty
    and staff
13. Personal strengths which should include creativity, interest in
    innovation, flexibility with ability to work with minimum
    supervision
14. Ability to work in a growing team environment
15. Some programming preferred but not required
16. Knowledge of and experience with current practices and trends in
    public service in an academic research library or academic data
    center
17. Ability to analysis and resolve problems
18. Flexibility to work with multiple assignments and priorities
19. Knowledge of social science commercial and governmental databases;
    Preferably also knowledge of high end business databases
20. Proven Project management skills
