+++
nid = "1613"
jid = "00070"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1613"
title = "Information Research Specialist"
employer = "Harvard Business School"
employerurl = "http://www.hbs.edu/"
postdate = "2008-09-09"
archivedate = "2008-10-30"
draft = "false"
+++
Duties And Responsibilities: As part of a team-based service department
within Knowledge and Library Services, works primarily with HBS faculty,
research assistants, and doctoral students to determine research data
and analytical needs and develop plans for supporting research projects,
personally implementing or managing the implementation of those plans.
Responds to customers' information research needs using electronic,
printed, and other types of information sources. Researches, identifies,
evaluates, obtains, accesses, interprets, and analyzes text and
quantitative information and data from printed and digital sources,
including, but not limited to: macroeconomic, financial, accounting, and
securities data; and, where appropriate, information collected from
third-party and non-traditional sources. Builds and manages coherent
databases, merges data from multiple sources and formats; performs
statistical analyses; creates spreadsheets, graphs and databases
representing results of research and analyses; consults with and advises
researchers on optimal methodologies and interpretations of results.
Serves as backup to Senior Information Researcher in providing
colleagues and customers with training, maintenance, and support for
specialized research databases and analytical software in Baker Library
Services and the Division of Research and Faculty Development's Faculty
Research Computing Center. Responsible for completing a varying number
of long-term research projects as well as responding to quick-turnaround
information requests. Other duties as required.
  
Basic Qualifications: Masters degree or equivalent graduate education in
Business Administration, Economics, Statistics, or other relevant
discipline. Second Masters degree in related field highly desirable.
Minimum 2-4 years of professional-level information research work
experience. Broad knowledge of business topics including corporate
finance and accounting; solid understanding of business and economics
concepts and related quantitative measures. Demonstrated skills and
experience in the use of common tools for information access,
management, analysis, and presentation. Demonstrated ability to access
and extract information from data in a variety of formats. Record of
involvement in empirical investigations in business and/or economics or
research experience in a large corporate or academic library.
Demonstrated dedication, flexibility, creativity, and adaptability in
the uses and management of available resources and in identifying,
evaluating, acquiring, accessing, and employing new resources.
Demonstrated ability to take initiative and thrive in a high-paced,
changing, collaborative environment. Able to produce timely, high
quality results under pressure. Highly developed skills in information
organization, presentation and delivery; critical thinking; customer
service; initiative. Demonstrated record of managing customer
relationships, setting priorities, meeting multiple deadlines, and
sharing workloads and projects with a research team. Deep experience
using SAS and Excel essential, some knowledge of STATA and SPSS
desirable. Intermediate to advanced desktop and/or UNIX computer skills.
Knowledge of standard business research databases, including COMPUSTAT,
CRSP, SDC, Datastream, Bloomberg, IBES, Morningstar, and Research
Insight is desirable. Excellent organizational, writing, communication
and interpersonal skills. Record of involvement in the mentoring and
coaching of junior research staff and novice researchers.
