+++
nid = "1621"
jid = "00075"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1621"
title = "Geospatial Data Librarian"
employer = "Duke University"
employerurl = "http://library.duke.edu/"
postdate = "2008-10-23"
archivedate = "2008-11-15"
draft = "false"
+++
The Geospatial Data Librarian supports researchers using geospatial data
and GIS software. Working collaboratively with other staff in Data and
GIS Services, the librarian in this position builds Duke's geospatial
data collections and provides outreach to faculty and students using
data and GIS resources in their research.
  
It is the expectation that all Duke University Library staff members
will demonstrate exceptional workplace behaviors in the execution of
their specific position responsibilities. These behaviors are customer
focus, collaboration, creative problem solving, continuous learning and
a commitment to diversity.

Education

Required: Master's degree from an ALA-accredited program or a relevant
subject field or an equivalent combination of education, experience, and
training.

Experience

Required: Previous experience in providing public service for geospatial
data, knowledge of public and proprietary resources for national and
international geospatial data; advanced skills in management and
analysis of geospatial data; advanced knowledge of ESRI's desktop GIS
software (i.e., ArcGIS/ArcView); and, knowledge of relevant metadata
standards (e.g. FGDC) for geospatial data. Experience in selecting
print, electronic, and other library resources and in providing
reference and research assistance to faculty and students in a research
environment. Excellent interpersonal, oral and written communication
skills; able to work independently and as a member of a team; working
knowledge of MS Office applications; demonstrated commitment to
providing outstanding customer services.

Preferred: Knowledge of ARC IMS, Google Earth Pro, or other applications
for web-based GIS services; basic familiarity with ArcINFO; and basic
familiarity with software for statistical analysis. Experience with
other desktop GIS programs (e.g. GRASS, MapInfo, Maptitude, etc.);
experience working with quantitative data sources of use for the social
sciences; and experience working with print map collections.
