+++
nid = "1636"
jid = "00092"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1636"
title = "Data Services Librarian"
employer = "Rutgers University Libraries"
employerurl = "http://www.libraries.rutgers.edu"
postdate = "2009-06-10"
archivedate = "2009-07-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The Rutgers University Libraries seek an experienced, innovative, and
service-oriented librarian to fill the newly-created position of Data
Services Librarian in the John Cotton Dana Library on the Newark Campus
of Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.

In consideration of the role of the library as an academic unit, at the
center of support for academic departments and research programs on the
Rutgers-Newark campus, the Dana Library is enhancing its focus on
research support, including research by individual faculty members,
academic units, and research centers. In providing direct support for
original research and the library's traditional role in providing
support for secondary research, using scholarly and professional
journals, books, and other online and print information resources, the
enhanced focus on research support will include the management of large
data sets and data services.

A new unit within Dana Library will include data services, along with
digital library, media, and library computing services, in support of
individual faculty scholarship, all academic units and disciplines, as
well as disciplinary and interdisciplinary research centers. Reporting
to the Head of Media and Digital Library Services for the Dana Library
and working closely with the Data Librarian on the New Brunswick campus,
the Data Services Librarian position will include faculty liaison
responsibilities, particularly with research centers and responsibility
for the management and analysis of large data sets and providing expert
support in the presentation of the results of research and analysis.

The second component of the data services position responsibilities will
also relate directly to research support, as well as support for the
instructional mission. The Data Services Librarian will provide support
in data analysis functions and the use of software, particularly for
assisting faculty and graduate students, as well as undergraduate
students, using software for quantitative and qualitative analysis and
research databases, such as interactive Census databases and GIS
databases. In support of the library's assessment function, the Data
Services Librarian will play a key role in the comprehensive analysis of
the documented needs and use of the data services resources and use of
the data services for research support, by faculty, academic units, and
research centers. And, the Data Services Librarian will participate as a
member of the Public Services team, to join a team of library faculty
committed to providing first-rate public services to a diverse academic
community, in providing reference and research assistance and collection
development responsibilities, including the selection of databases and
other resources that support the provision of data services.

As a member of a university-wide faculty, the Data Services Librarian
may participate in system-wide initiatives, committees, and task forces,
related to the areas of professional responsibility.

Please note:
The position is grant-funded, with an initial appointment of one year.
The position will be continued, pending ongoing funding.

Terms of employment: Faculty status, calendar year appointment,
retirement plans, life/health insurance, prescription drug, dental and
vision plans, tuition remission, one month vacation.
  
Required Qualifications: Master's degree in Library and Information
Science, or Master's degree in relevant science or social science
discipline. Experience working with quantitative data and manipulation
of datasets. Knowledge of statistical software such as SAS, SPSS (PASW),
Stata, and/or R. Familiarity with major data resources (ICPSR, Census,
etc.). Good communication and interpersonal skills. Skill in
collaboration and teamwork in an academic environment. Strong service
orientation and understanding of user needs.

Desired Qualifications: Experience with software for qualitative data
analysis. Experience with relational databases. Experience in a library
environment, including reference and public services. Knowledge of XML
and metadata standards relevant to data. Familiarity with web design and
scripting languages.
