+++
nid = "1632"
jid = "00088"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1632"
title = "Electronic Resources Librarian"
employer = "Research Library, Federal Reserve Board"
employerurl = "http://www.federalreserve.gov/research/library.htm"
postdate = "2009-04-04"
archivedate = "2009-04-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The Research Library at the Federal Reserve Board of Governors is
seeking an Electronic Resources Librarian. This new position is designed
to meet the Board's need for support in assessing, negotiating for, and
acquiring data and electronic resources to meet time-sensitive research
needs.

As the central bank of the United States, the Federal Reserve's mission
is to provide the nation with a safer, more flexible, and more stable
monetary and financial system. As a Federal Reserve staff member, you
will play a critical role in accomplishing this mission.

The Environment

The Research Library offers a full array of desktop and customized
library services to the 2,000 staff members at the Board. Over 200 of
the Board's staff are PhD economists, and many more support the
research process. This is a concentration of economic expertise
exceeding that of most other institutions. Over 82% of the staff in the
three primary research divisions are library customers. Research at the
Board is data intensive and Internet dependent. The research staff
appreciate their library and are eagerly looking forward to the hiring
of an electronic resources librarian. The Research Library has a staff
of eleven

The Position

The Electronic Resources Librarian will work with Board staff to
identify and acquire needed data and electronic resources to meet
time-sensitive research needs. The librarian will manage the assessment
and acquisitions process by conducting evaluations, participating in
negotiations, reviewing site licenses and agreements, serving as a
liaison to offices involved in the acquisitions process, and by guiding
the acquisitions process to the point of activation. The Electronic
Resources Librarian will work to raise awareness of the resources
acquired, arrange for vendor training and oversee renewal audit
activities. Many of the contracts for data and resources involve
multiple divisions at the Board; some are consortial agreements
including Federal Reserve Bank Libraries. The Electronic Resources
Librarian reports to the Chief Librarian; the position is
non-supervisory.
  
The successful applicant will have an MLS degree and experience in
acquiring and managing data and electronic resources, in negotiating,
and in reviewing agreements. Applicants need 2 or 3 years of experience
in managing electronic resources, depending on the level hired at.
Strong analytical and problem-solving skills are essential. Excellent
interpersonal and oral/written communication skills, sound judgment, and
initiative are required. Specific knowledge of resources in the fields
of business, banking, finance, and economics is desirable.
