+++
nid = "1639"
jid = "00095"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1639"
title = "Research and Instruction Technologist"
employer = "Wellesley College"
employerurl = "https//www.wellesley.edu/"
postdate = "2009-10-02"
archivedate = "2009-11-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The Research and Instruction Technologist provides support for data
driven research and instruction being done in the sciences, social
sciences and humanities. Principal tasks will center upon assisting
faculty and students in using spatial and numeric data for classroom
assignments and research projects through individual consultations,
classroom instruction and technical workshops. This position provides
support for software such as Stata, SPSS, ArcGIS, and Excel. This
position collaborates closely with faculty and colleagues across
Information Services and elsewhere on campus to develop and lead new
programs to support data driven research and instruction and create an
integrated support model for the wide range of specialized academic
software in use across campus.  
  
Required: Substantial background in statistical/quantitative data
analysis, and good computing skills. Substantial demonstrated experience
in at least one major statistical software application in use at
Wellesley (SPSS or Stata) or Arc GIS as well as Microsoft Excel.
Demonstrated experience working with undergraduate students and faculty
and instructing/teaching undergraduates. Ability and willingness to
assist users with a wide range of skill in quantitative analysis (from
beginning to advanced) of numeric/spatial data. Excellent interpersonal
and communication skills. Minimum of three years of related professional
experience. Applicants must be able to work well as part of a team and
work effectively in a culturally diverse environment.

Desired: An advanced degree in a quantitative social science,
statistics, or applied statistics is highly desirable. Experience
working with/performing data analysis on commonly used numeric data
resources (e.g., U.S. Census data, ICPSR, microdata from
majornational/international surveys, statistical databases such as
"International Financial Statistics", etc.). Advanced web authoring
skills, and experience creating and maintaining information systems.
Background in the use of qualitative/textual data. Experience in a
library environment and familiarity with academic library information
resources, academic library services, and academic library practices a
plus.  
