+++
nid = "1637"
jid = "00093"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1637"
title = "Social Sciences/Data Librarian"
employer = "Amherst College Library"
employerurl = "https://www.amherst.edu/library"
postdate = "2009-09-02"
archivedate = "2009-10-30"
draft = "false"
+++
Amherst College Library seeks a Social Sciences/Data Librarian to join
its Public Services and serve as the Library's primary subject
specialist for social sciences and law, acting as liaison and selector
as well as statistics expert in those disciplines. The Social
Sciences/Data Librarian will provide instruction in research and the use
of library resources in a variety of settings, with a special emphasis
on social sciences, legal studies, government information, and data.
S/he will demonstrate a willingness to hone skills as a library teacher,
especially incorporating appropriate technology. S/he will maintain
currency with emerging information technologies and trends in scholarly
communication, anticipating and facilitating new uses of social sciences
research and data in response to evolving patterns of publishing and
information dissemination. The Social Sciences/Data Librarian also
participates in general reference services, guiding and instructing
library patrons in identifying, retrieving and evaluating information in
all formats. S/he will also play an active role in the development and
enhancement of public services in general
  
Minimum qualifications: must have a strong academic background or
experience in social sciences as well as an ability to locate, evaluate,
and manipulate relevant data. Master's degree from a program accredited
by the American Library Association required. Must have minimum of two
years of experience in an academic or research library or equivalent, in
progressively more responsible positions, preferably with involvement in
public services and user education. Demonstrated ability to teach and a
commitment to participate in undergraduate education required. Strong
communication skills required. The successful candidate must be willing
to tackle challenges in an academic library with energy and enthusiasm,
showing patience, tact, and good humor in the face of stressful demands
of public service. S/he is expected to contribute to library initiatives
that further the College's commitment to diversity and inclusion.
