+++
nid = "1642"
jid = "00098"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1642"
title = "Research Data Management Librarian"
employer = "Cornell Institute for Social and Economic Research (CISER)"
employerurl = "http://ciser.cornell.edu"
postdate = "2009-12-17"
archivedate = "2009-12-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The Cornell Institute for Social and Economic Research (CISER) seeks an
innovative, collaborative, and service-oriented professional to build an
exemplary university-based environment for social science research data
management. CISER has strengths in computational infrastructure, secure
data storage, and a robust restricted data and sharing environment and a
data archive that dates to 1981. The successful applicant will spearhead
efforts to develop infrastructure supporting the data lifecycle,
enhanced access and discovery tools, and data preservation.

Cornell social scientists are on the cutting edge of interdisciplinary
research questions using complex data resources. Growing recognition of
the value of data management and preservation practices affords CISER
and its Cornell partners with opportunities to support a lifecycle
approach to data management. The individual in this position will play a
key role in anticipating, developing, and implementing services to
support this activity. She or he will bring a social science perspective
to bear on existing research data investments supported by the Cornell
University Library; for example, DataStar
[datastar.mannlib.cornell.edu] and DISCOVER
[arecibo.tc.cornell.edu/DRSG/]
  
-   Experience with metadata practices and standards such as DDI,
    OAI-PMH, MODS, METS, PREMIS, FGDC or MARC.
-   Demonstrated interest in cutting-edge web-based technologies for
    augmentation, presentation, or manipulation of research data; an
    enthusiasm to promote use of such tools to empower Cornell social
    scientists.
-   Knowledge and experience with social science statistical software
    such as SAS, Stata, SPSS, or R.
-   Experience working with large social science datasets and
    familiarity with major data resources such as ICPSR and the U.S.
    Census Bureau.
-   Demonstrated evidence of excellent communications and interpersonal
    skills.

Preferred Qualifications:

-   Knowledge of qualitative data analysis software such as Atlas.ti.
-   Knowledge or experience of GIS data and software, such as ArcGIS.
-   Experience teaching workshops of a technical nature.
-   Supervisory experience.
