+++
nid = "1658"
jid = "00114"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1658"
title = "Data Librarian"
employer = "Yale University"
employerurl = "http://www.yale.edu/"
postdate = "2010-09-23"
archivedate = "2010-10-15"
draft = "false"
+++
Reporting to the Director of the Social Science Libraries, the Science
and Social Science Data Librarian provides support and instruction in
the discovery, use, and management of locally- and externally-available
data; collaborates with librarians, GIS specialists, and StatLab staff
to develop scalable, sustainable, and domain-appropriate data services,
in support of science and social science research at Yale; and
represents Yale University Library to state, national, and international
data organizations. Responsible for increasing visibility of available
data resources for potential users through outreach efforts such as
blogs, RSS feeds, mailings lists, "Web 2.0" services, department-based
office hours, and workshops. Participates in research, instruction,
program planning, and implementation.

This position facilitates access to collections and services of a
complex, multi-faceted research/academic library through direct contact
with library patrons and/or through the development of collections and
their bibliographic identification. Contributes to improvements in the
efficiency and effectiveness of the scholarly communications system.
Develops, implements, and/or administers department/library policy and
procedures, which provides access to the Yale University Library
collections, and which allows for the cooperative exchange of resources
between Yale and other universities and information networks. The Data
Librarian is a member of the Science and Social Science Library teams
and participates in Yale University Library programs and committees.

Duties:

Provides consultation and instruction in the discovery, use, and
management of locally- and externally-available datasets. Selects and
acquires data resources in the sciences and social sciences for use by
the Yale community; reviews licenses and contracts for appropriate
agreements, in cooperation with electronic resources staff as needed.
Advises Technical Services staff on receiving acquired datasets and
preparing them for availability to users and on cataloging requirements
in Orbis (or successor systems). Initiates outreach to potential data
resources users through efforts such as blogs, RSS feeds, mailings
lists, "Web 2.0" services, department-based office hours, and workshops.
Collaborates with librarians, GIS specialists, and StatLab staff to
develop scalable, sustainable, and domain-appropriate data services in
support of science and social science research at Yale. Represents and
acts as Yale University Library's liaison to state, national, and
international data organizations, such as the Inter-university
Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR), the Roper Center,
and the Data Documentation Initiative Alliance (DDI), and relevant
science data organizations. Collaborates with other campus units
including other libraries, the Office of Digital Assets and
Infrastructure (ODAI), Information Technology Services (ITS), Human
Research Protection Program, and faculty, to investigate, develop and
sustain programs to:

-   Make datasets created by Yale faculty and graduate students
    available for interactive, web-based analysis.
-   Optimize functions for discovery and preservation of data and its
    associated metadata in library catalogs, data archives/repositories,
    cross-collection search engines, and similar systems.
-   Develop and refine policies, guidelines, and/or best practices on
    data ownership, dataset version tracking, documentation of datasets
    for publishing, and related matters.
-   Establish and maintain for faculty a restricted access data center,
    physical and/or virtual, at Yale.
-   Assist researchers writing grant-required data management plans.

Participates in research and instruction services in the Social Science
Library. Participates in Science and Social Science Library program
planning and implementation. Participates in and contributes to library
long-term planning and is professionally active in library, scholarly,
and/or academic organizations. Participates in Library-wide committees
as appropriate. Represents the Library and the University in the
academic and professional community by serving on various committees and
task forces. May be required to assist with disaster recovery efforts.
May be assigned to work at West Campus location in West Haven, CT.
  
Master's degree from an ALA-accredited program for library and
information science and two years of professional experience; and
demonstrated professional accomplishments and ongoing engagement in
professional development, research, or services appropriate to the rank
required. Appointment to the Librarian III rank requires at least five
years of professional experience and demonstrated professional
accomplishments appropriate to the rank.

Demonstrated knowledge of statistical and spatial software for data
analysis and with online and network based information systems.
Technical expertise in the configuration and maintenance of computer
workstations. Familiarity with data archival procedures. Familiarity
with common metadata standards, e.g., DDI. Familiarity with XML and
HTML; direct experience preferred. Familiarity with principles of
database design (Microsoft Access, SQL); direct experience preferred.
Demonstrated record of designing projects and bringing them to a
conclusion in a timely fashion. Demonstrated ability to work collegially
and cooperatively within and across organizations. Ability to work
independently with varied user groups in a complex organization and
function collaboratively in a rapidly changing team environment. Strong
public service orientation. Excellent analytical, organizational,
management, oral and written communications, and interpersonal skills.

Preferred: Undergraduate and/or advanced degree in social science or
science; Reading knowledge of one or more Western European languages.
