+++
nid = "1650"
jid = "00106"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1650"
title = "The David and Nancy Petrone MAP/GIS Librarian"
employer = "University of Oregon Libraries"
employerurl = "University of Oregon Libraries"
postdate = "2010-05-03"
archivedate = "2010-06-15"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Oregon Libraries seeks an enthusiastic, creative, and
user-oriented colleague for the position of the David and Nancy Petrone
MAP/GIS Librarian. The incumbent in this endowed position will manage
the Libraries' Map and Aerial Photography (MAP) Collection, lead its
geographic information system (GIS) program, and participate in a wide
range of services and professional responsibilities in a dynamic
environment. The MAP Collection, with 400,000 maps, 500,000 air photos,
and numerous GIS datasets, has one of the largest collections of
geographic resources in the country and is used heavily by researchers
on campus and within the Pacific Northwest. Special areas of strength
include maps of the western U.S., Americas and Europe, aerial
photography of Oregon from 1929 to the present, and 4,000 atlases and
reference books. The Map and Air Photo Research Service (MAPRS) provides
access to the collections for a large external clientele. The UO has a
campus site license for ESRI GIS software.

Responsibilities:
This position has primary responsibility for the Library's Map and
Aerial Photography Collection, and for implementation of the Library's
GIS program. The GIS program consists of data collection and
dissemination, development of the Library's GIS website, collaboration
in campus-wide GIS activities, and relevant user education services. As
subject specialist in the fields of Geography and Cartography, this
position is responsible for developing the collections in those fields,
and for liaison with the university's Geography Department. This
position reports to the Head of the Document Center, and participates in
providing reference service in that department's areas of coverage:
maps and air photos, government information, and business information.
Library faculty members develop curricula and teach credit courses and
non-credit workshops in their areas of expertise and for general library
instruction. The position supervises 1.0 FTE support staff member and
various student employees.
  
Required: American Library Association-accredited master's degree, or
relevant master's degree; knowledge of map librarianship; knowledge of
GIS services and experience with GIS software such as ArcView; high
degree of computer literacy and interest in new technologies and their
applications in academic libraries; excellent communication skills and
potential to excel as an instructor. Preferred: degree in a discipline
that emphasizes spatial data, such as geography, earth sciences, or land
use planning; demonstrated professional development activity; previous
supervisory or lead work experience. The successful candidate will
support and enhance a diverse learning and working environment.
