+++
nid = "2966"
jid = "00145"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-10-28 11:55"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/2966"
title = "Data Management Librarian"
employer = "Oregon State University Libraries"
employerurl = "http://osulibrary.orst.edu/"
postdate = "2011-10-28"
archivedate = "2011-11-28"
draft = "false"
+++
The Oregon State University Libraries invites applications for a
newly-funded, full-time, 12-month, Assistant Professor Data Management
Librarian position.
 
Reporting to the Head of the Center for Digital Scholarship and
Services, the Data Management Librarian plays a central role in
developing services and guidelines in support of scientific data
management at Oregon State University. The position works with faculty,
graduate students, academic units and research centers, assisting in
managing, describing, preserving and making research data available and
accessible to appropriate audiences. The Data Management Librarian
assists faculty and graduate students with writing data management plans
required by funding agencies. The position identifies appropriate venues
for data and serves as an intermediary between researchers and
appropriate digital repository systems including ScholarsArchive@OSU.

The Data Management Librarian works with faculty and graduate students
to develop workflows and metadata necessary to support Oregon State
University's research enterprise. The position participates in campus
initiatives, committees, and task forces related to data management and
storage. The position tracks international developments in data curation
and participates in library, campus, regional and national discussions
regarding cooperative data curation activities and services. The
position works with other librarians to build liaison activities
relating to data management.

This is a tenure-track faculty position at the rank of Assistant
Professor, and the librarian is a member of the University Libraries'
faculty. Library faculty serve on committees and task forces both at the
library and university level and take a leadership role in local, state
and national/international library and academic societies and
organizations. Librarians are expected to share expertise and results of
research with other information professionals via development of new
technologies, publication in refereed journals, poster sessions and/or
presentations at professional meetings.   

  

