+++
nid = "2839"
jid = "00134"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-08-02 08:59"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/2839"
title = "Manager, Data Management Services"
employer = "John Hopkins University"
employerurl = "http://jhu.edu/"
postdate = "2011-08-02"
archivedate = "2011-08-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The Manager, Data Management Services manages a team that provides data
management and planning services, including both data management
consulting and technical staff. Also, provides consultative data
management planning support to JHU Principle Investigators. This is a
split position of half managing the team, and the other half providing
data management planning services.

The primary duties and responsibilities of the job:

Manages team providing data management and planning services (50%): •
Supervises team, including setting goals, performance management, and
development. • Works with team to assess services and plan for service
development, enhancement, and expansion. • Maintains relationships with
primary JHU stakeholders supporting services and oversee all
administrative needs. • Oversees budgeting and administrative matters. •
Liaise with the Principal Investigator, Executive Director and Chief IT
Architect of Data Conservancy.

Provides data management planning services (50%): • Manage inquiries
from JHU PIs for data management planning support. • Provides
consultative support to PIs including evaluation of data planning needs,
assessing short and long term options and benefits, catering planning to
specific granting agency requirements, and editing data management
plans. • Tracks specific scientific domain areas building knowledge and
expertise in data types, formats, and needs within domain. • Identifies
data standards, metadata standards, best practices for data management,
etc. to continuously build expertise and improve provision of service. •
Maintains knowledge on a broad range of data repositories including
their submission, Intellectual Property, and use arrangements, and
provide guidance on repository selection for deposit. • Proactively
collaborates and coordinate with team to plan for data management. •
Collaborates with others in the library to effectively communicate
services to faculty, researchers, and departments. • Responsible for
manage short and long-term communication and relationship with PIs.

Additional information: The Sheridan Libraries encompass the Milton S.
Eisenhower Library and its collections at the John Work Garrett Library,
the George Peabody Library, the Albert D. Hutzler Reading Room, and the
DC Centers. Its primary constituency is the students and faculty in the
schools of Arts & Sciences, Engineering, Carey Business School and the
School of Education. A key partner in the academic enterprise, the
library is a leader in the innovative application of information
technology and has implemented notable diversity and organizational
development programs. The Sheridan Libraries are strongly committed to
diversity. A strategic goal of the Libraries is to 'work toward
achieving diversity when recruiting new and promoting existing staff.'
The Libraries prize initiative, creativity, professionalism, and
teamwork. For information on the Sheridan Libraries, visit
www.library.jhu.edu.
  
• Masters of Science, Engineering or Library Science. • A minimum of
three (3) years combined of library, information technology,
informatics, and/or scientific research experience. • A minimum of two
years (2) years of management or supervisory experience.

• Experience working with scientific data management and/or curation
preferred. • Experience with one or more components of the research data
life cycle: creation, processing, analyzing, preserving, providing
access to, and re-using. • Must be self motivated, pro-active, willing
to take on new challenges and solve problems with minimal supervision. •
Good listener with a high degree of customer orientation. • Superb
people skills, strong team-orientation, and professional attitude. •
Clear and consistent communicator. • Strong writing skills. • Strong
project planning, management, and execution skills. • Demonstrated
ability to work with and easily adapt to new technology. • Experience
managing budgets preferred. • Experience managing relationships and/or
partnerships with other institutions or vendors a plus.
