+++
nid = "2850"
jid = "00139"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-09-08 10:24"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/2850"
title = " Data Visualization Coordinator"
employer = "Duke University"
employerurl = "http://www.duke.edu/"
postdate = "2011-08-25"
archivedate = "2011-09-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The Data Visualization Coordinator supports information visualization
across multiple disciplines at Duke University.  The position is
responsible for providing instruction and outreach to faculty, students,
and interdisciplinary campus groups, supporting both individual and team
or lab visualization projects. S/He also represents Duke in the
information visualization community and provides leadership in
developing and evolving visualization services in concert with faculty
needs and research computing strategies. The position reports to both
the Head of Data and GIS Services within Duke University Libraries and
to the Director of Research Computing within the University's Office of
Information Technology.

Responsibilities:

-   Advises, consults, develops and provides technical support and
    training to students and faculty from all academic disciplines in
    the visualization of data, with an emphasis on information
    visualization.
-   Leads workshops and training session on information visualization
    tools and strategies.
-   Supports researchers in the Data and GIS Services Lab with data and
    data visualization questions.
-   Serves as an active member of the Research Computing Advisory
    Committee, prepares reports as needed.
-   Creates guides and interfaces to enhance information visualization
    at Duke University.
-   Supports research groups with proposal development for external
    funding for visualization activities.
-   Provides software assessment; recommends packages for site license
    consideration, and advise IT community on specifications for display
    and rendering hardware and software.
-   Collaborates with other library units on projects involving
    information visualization.
-   Participates in relevant conferences and meetings.
-   Performs other duties as assigned.

 Supervisory Responsibilities:

-   This position may supervise interns or research assistants
  
It is the expectation that all Duke University Library staff members
will demonstrate exceptional workplace behaviors in the execution of
their specific position responsibilities. These behaviors are customer
focus, collaboration, creative problem solving, continuous learning and
a commitment to diversity.

### Education

**Required:*
-  Master's degree in a field related to information
visualization or equivalent combination of education and experience

**Preferred:*
-  Second advanced degree in a related field.

### Experience

**Required:*
-  At least one year of experience working in the area of
information visualization or comparable education and experience;
demonstrated ability to provide consultations and instruction to
researchers on information visualization; demonstrated experience with
data management (data transformation and coding skills) and use in a
variety of contexts; experience with at least one programming language
(such as C, C++, Java, Perl, Python, R); experience with data
visualization tools and with tool programming libraries; able to
construct and automatically extract information from databases;
excellent interpersonal, oral and written communication skills; able to
work independently and as a member of a team.

**Preferred:*
-  Previous experience supporting information visualization
in a research setting; experience working with geospatial/georeferenced
data collections; able to effectively work with large (greater than a
gigabyte) data sets; experience with additional programming languages
(such as C, C++, Java, Perl, Python, R).
