+++
nid = "2024"
jid = "00128"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-06-17 07:56"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/2024"
title = "Outreach and Information Technology Librarian"
employer = "Bryn Mawr"
employerurl = "http://www.brynmawr.edu/"
postdate = "2011-05-28"
archivedate = "2011-07-17"
draft = "false"
+++
If you seek a dynamic work environment where you can combine your
research, technical, and information management skills with active
outreach and participation with the campus community to promote the
Library's mission, we would like to hear from you.

This full time position reports directly to the Head of Research
Support
and Educational Technology and has primary responsibility for
coordinating
and supporting library outreach, bibliographic instruction, course
management and pedagogical support to students, faculty and staff. The
Outreach and IT librarian provides direct research assistance to the
Graduate School of Social Work and Social Research and all Social
Science
academic departments, and plays a major role in Tri-College (Bryn Mawr,
Haverford & Swarthmore) library IT development.

Bryn Mawr College is a private liberal arts institution that serves a
population of 1,800 students at both the undergraduate and graduate
levels. Located approximately 18 miles west of Philadelphia, PA, the
College has a long tradition of educational excellence offering a
dynamic
and challenging workplace conducive to professional growth. The College
offers a competitive salary, comprehensive benefits package including
22
paid vacation days, and a generous pension contribution.
  
General qualifications: a minimum of three to seven years of
professional
experience in information technology and/or reference services in a
special or academic library, or relevant teaching experience in an
academic discipline. Master's degree in Library and Information
Science
from an ALA-accredited institution or an advanced degree in an academic
subject area, knowledge of emerging information and pedagogical
technologies, and experience providing support in a multi-platform,
network intensive environment are required. Ph.D. and ABD applicants
welcomed.
