+++
nid = "1919"
jid = "00125"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-05-19 13:18"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1919"
title = "Data Curation Librarian"
employer = "Northeastern University Libraries"
employerurl = "http://www.lib.neu.edu/"
postdate = "2011-05-19"
archivedate = "2011-05-30"
draft = "false"
+++
Are you interested in applying your skills to a new area of information
management and working alongside world-class researchers as you do so?
 Do you think about the future of libraries, open-access to research
data, and digital repository services?  If so, consider becoming our
data curation librarian!

As part of the Digital Library Management department, the Data Curation
Librarian provides a wide range of curatorial services, including data
documentation, assistance with developing appropriate data management
plans, and preparation of data for storage in Northeastern's digital
repository service.

The successful candidate will work closely with colleagues in the
Libraries andacross campus to play a leading role in ensuring
Northeastern's compliance with data curation mandates as well as
promoting open access to Northeastern produced research data.  He or she
will be responsible for developing and maintaining a robust and
integrated set of programs and activities that strengthen the Library's
role in supporting data-intensive research and researchers at
Northeastern as well as meeting the secondary data analysis needs across
all disciplines.
  
Qualifications for this exciting position include:
·      MLS or equivalent degree.
·      Additional Master's degree or equivalent research experience in a
relevant science or social science discipline.
·       Minimum of 5 years experience working with research data and
researchers (e.g. a combination of academic work done in labs with
research data, outreach workdone with researchers and faculty, digital
repository work, etc. )
·      Good communication and interpersonal skills.
·      Strong skills in collaboration and teamwork within an
entrepreneurial academic environment.
·      Strong service orientation and understanding of user needs.
Desirable:
·      Experience with relational databases.
·      Knowledge of XML and metadata standards relevant to data.
·      Knowledge of one or more scripting languages, i.e. PHP, Perl.
·      Familiarity with major data resources, such as ICPSR, Census,
etc.
