+++
nid = "1964"
jid = "00126"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-06-16 13:28"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1964"
title = "Research data management coordinator"
employer = "University of Sydney"
employerurl = "http://sydney.edu.au/"
postdate = "2011-05-26"
archivedate = "2011-07-16"
draft = "false"
+++
 

-   New opportunity in an expanding industry
-   Further develop your skills in this area
-   Full time, fixed term for 12 months: $80Kp.a. including leave
    loading and up to 17% super

The University of Sydney is Australia's premier University with an
outstanding global reputation for academic and research excellence, and
employs over 7500 permanent staff supporting over 49,000 students. We
are seeking to appoint a Research Data Management Coordinator.
Organisationally this position sits in the University Library, but the
context is the University's eResearch strategy, a collaboration between
the Research Portfolio, ICT and the University Library. The position of
Research Data Management Coordinator is funded through the ANDS
(Australian National Data Service) Seeding the Commons program. The
purpose of this program is to facilitate the identification of research
data sets for discovery through the national Research Data Australia
service, and to develop guidelines and templates for research data
management plans at the University of Sydney. In this role, you will:

 

-   develop templates to facilitate research data description and
    sharing within the University and within ANDS services for the
    Australian Research Data Commons
-   take responsibility for metadata quality for the University of
    Sydney ANDS Seeding the commons Project
-   transfer existing collections of research data metadata records
-   assist researchers to assess research data collections in terms of
    size, scope, formats, quality, related metadata or documentation,
    and access restrictions
-   you will support the Research Data Manager to anticipate, identify
    and troubleshoot metadata quality issues, seeking guidance from and
    providing feedback to ANDS staff as required.
  
To be successful in this role you will have:

 

-   Relevant degree or equivalent combination of relevant experience
    and/or education/training
-   Experience in information management or content management with
    demonstrated experience working with complex metadata structures,
    including the collection and recording of metadata.
-   Current knowledge of metadata and technical standards for
    repositories and registries, such as MODS, ISO2146 / RIF-CS, XML,
    XSLT and OAI-PMH
-   Strong communication and interpersonal skills, including the ability
    to develop and maintain key client relationships with academic
    staff.

This is an interesting opportunity for someone with a high attention to
detail who enjoys working in a complex research environment.
