+++
nid = "2974"
jid = "00148"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-11-09 17:11"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/2974"
title = "Social Sciences Data Librarian"
employer = "Brown University"
employerurl = "http://www.brown.edu/academics/libraries"
postdate = "2011-11-09"
archivedate = "2011-12-09"
draft = "false"
+++
The Brown University Library seeks an innovative and service-oriented
individual for the position of Social Sciences Data Librarian.  The
Social Sciences Data Librarian manages, delivers, and develops library
services related to the discovery and use of data sets in the social
sciences.  Works closely with faculty and students to determine needs
and support the use of GIS and numeric data, as well as web-based
geographical systems, and provides in-depth, subject-based research
services for library users and researchers. Teaches research skills and
strategies and conducts workshops on different social sciences software
packages (with an emphasis on geographical information systems).
Provides technical assistance and data curation services for social
sciences data sets created by Brown researchers. Keeps informed of
emerging trends and technologies in social sciences data management and
contributes to the development of library-related resources and
services.

The incumbent has particular responsibility for the following
collections or programs: Social Sciences Data Center, Social Sciences
software packages (e.g. ArcGIS, SPSS, Stata, Nvivo), Library Map
resources and United Nations Information.    Serves as the library's
liaison to these programs and identifies resources and develops
collections to meet the current information needs (including books,
e-books, e-journals, databases and other resources) in these fields. 
Participates in the needs assessment, evaluation, design, and
implementation of user-driven services for the library's scholarly
resources.
  
-   Masters in Library Science degree from an ALA-accredited institution
    or advanced degree in the social sciences
-   Demonstrated knowledge of and experience with geographic information
    systems (GIS) and cartographic and geospatial cataloging/metadata
-   Demonstrated knowledge of and experience with appropriate
    quantitative data services and software: e.g.. SPSS, Stata, SAS
-   Knowledge of relevant social sciences metadata standards
-   Knowledge of the scholarly communications process (publishing,
    copyright, repositories)
-   Experience with library research tools relevant to the social
    sciences
-   Experience with instruction and making presentations
-   Experience working with researchers in a rapidly changing
    environment
-   Excellent communication and interpersonal skills
-   Ability to work in a complex library organization with a strong
    service orientation
-   Excellent written and verbal communication skills
