+++
nid = "1764"
jid = "00123"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-05-09 10:26"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1764"
title = "Data & Electronic Content Librarian"
employer = "Federal Reserve"
employerurl = "http://www.federalreserve.gov/careers/jobsearch/default.aspx"
postdate = "2011-05-09"
archivedate = "2011-05-31"
draft = "false"
+++
The Research Library at the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System is seeking a Data & Electronic Content Librarian.  The position
is
designed to meet the Board's need for support in assessing,
negotiating
for, and acquiring data and electronic resources to meet time-sensitive
research needs.

The Mission

As the central bank of the United States, the Federal Reserve's mission
is
to provide the nation with a safer, more flexible, and more stable
monetary
and financial system. As a Federal Reserve staff member, you will play
a
critical role in accomplishing this mission.

The Environment

The Research Library, with a staff of eleven, offers a full array of
desktop and customized library services to the 2,000 staff members at
the
Board. Over 200 of the Board's staff are PhD economists, and many more
support the research process.  The Library plays an integral role in
the
work of the Board with more than 82% of the staff in the three primary
research divisions utilizing the Library's services.

The Position

The Data & Electronic Content Librarian is one of two positions
responsible
for guiding the acquisition of data and electronic content from the
data
reference interview with the requester through negotiating terms and
pricing, assisting procurement, and culminating in the access to the
data.

The Data and Electronic Content Librarian actively works on multiple
contracts concurrently, assuring that acquisitions are completed to
meet
time-critical research needs.  He/she works closely and communicates
effectively with staff throughout the acquisitions process, including
economists, vendors, managers and Board administrative, technical,
procurement and legal staff.   He/she meets with vendors to understand
the
products and data available, communicates information to Board
researchers,
negotiates agreements, reviews and edits contractual documents, and
prepares memos justifying purchases.

Working with librarian colleagues, he/she manages the Federal Reserve
Board's portfolio of data and electronic resources, maintains
relationships
with key content vendors, and assists managers with data and content
budget
projections.  The Data & Electronic Content Librarian works to raise
awareness of data and electronic resources, arranges vendor training,
and
oversees renewal audit activities.  He/she may represent the interests
of
the Board of Governors in the development of consortial agreements
within
the Federal Reserve System, comprised of the Board and twelve Reserve
Banks.  The Data & Electronic Content Librarian provides information on
fair use guidelines and permitted uses of licensed data.  The Data &
Electronic Content Librarian reports to the Chief Librarian; the
position
is non-supervisory.
  
Requirements:

-   Experience in negotiating contracts and pricing for data and
    electronic

content.
The position requires:

-   impeccable attention to detail
-   initiative and the ability to manage competing projects
-   strong analytical and problem-solving skills
-   excellent interpersonal skills, with strong oral and written
    communications skills in face-to-face meetings, conference calls,
    and via electronic mail
-   enjoy working collaboratively as part of a team while at the same
    time be able to work efficiently and effectively as an individual.


Highly desirable:

-   knowledge of economics, banking, finance, or business topics
    demonstrated through college coursework or work experiences.
-   experience and understanding of data and its use in research.


Education:

-   Master's degree in library science from an ALA-accredited
    institution or euivalent experience
