+++
nid = "1718"
jid = "00120"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-04-25 13:24"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1718"
title = "Data Librarian"
employer = "James A. Gibson Library, Brock University"
employerurl = "http://www.brocku.ca/library"
postdate = "2011-04-25"
archivedate = "2011-05-25"
draft = "false"
+++
Brock University Library has an exciting career opportunity for an
innovative, service-oriented Data Librarian.
This is a full-time probationary position leading to permanence.


The successful candidate will provide consultation, research support and
instruction in the discovery and use of
numerical and statistical data resources to the broad campus community.
The incumbent will work in close
collaboration with the Map Librarian and other members of the Data
Research Service team to provide
leadership to this developing service area. S/he will engage in user
needs assessment and outreach to promote
data literacy and best practices in data management. The Data Librarian
will serve as the contact with DLI and
ICPSR, and will be expected to participate in professional development
activities related to data librarianship.
The Data Librarian will also have liaison responsibilities for one or
more academic programs, and will be
responsible for the government documents collection and legal
information. The incumbent will participate in
scheduled reference service, with occasional evening and weekend
assignments.

Located at the centre of Canada's beautiful Niagara Peninsula, Brock
offers an exciting work environment with
strong undergraduate, graduate and interdisciplinary programs and a
vigorous research culture. More
information on Brock University can be found on the University's website
at www.brocku.ca. The University
Library provides information resources and services to a user community
of more than 17,000 students and 600
faculty. For further details about the Library, visit
www.brocku.ca/library.


Brock University offers a competitive salary and an attractive benefits
package. Salary and rank will be
commensurate with experience and qualifications. The position is
included in the Brock University Faculty
Association.
  
A Master's degree from an ALA accredited library program or its
equivalent is required; in addition a Master's
degree in a relevant discipline is desirable. Formal training and
experience in the use of data sets, applications
and software are definite assets. Recent library school graduates with
appropriate background and experience
and a strong desire to acquire specialized knowledge are encouraged to
apply.

 

-   Knowledge of statistical resources (e.g. Census, CANSIM, E-STAT and
    survey data), and data access
-   resources and tools (e.g. DLI, Equinox, ODESI, ICPSR).
-   Knowledge of statistical software such as SAS or SPSS and
    familiarity with ArcGIS.
-   An understanding of quantitative research methods.
-   Knowledge of research data management practices and emerging trends
    in data services.
-   Familiarity with common metadata standards such as the Data
    Documentation Initiative (DDI).
-   Knowledge of information resources in general, with an emphasis on
    the Social Sciences.
-   Proven reference and instruction skills.
-   Evidence of professional initiative, flexibility, and leadership
    potential.
-   Excellent analytical, interpersonal, and communication skills (oral
    and written).
-   Demonstrated ability to work collegially in both team-based and
    self-directed environments.
