+++
nid = "3010"
jid = "00151"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-12-13 12:08"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3010"
title = "Science Research Support Librarian"
employer = "Science Libraries, Yale University, New Haven, CT"
employerurl = "http://www.library.yale.edu/"
postdate = "2011-11-17"
archivedate = "2011-12-13"
draft = "false"
+++
Yale University offers exciting opportunities for achievement and growth
in New Haven, Connecticut.  Conveniently located between Boston and New
York, New Haven is the creative capital of Connecticut with cultural
resources that include two major art museums, a critically-acclaimed
repertory theater, state-of-the-art concert hall, and world-renowned
schools of Architecture, Art, Drama, and Music.

The University and the Library
The Yale University Library, as one of the world's leading research
libraries, collects, organizes, preserves, and provides access to and
services for a rich and unique record of human thought and creativity.
It fosters intellectual growth and is a highly valued partner in the
teaching and research missions of Yale University and scholarly
communities worldwide. A distinctive strength is its rich spectrum of
resources, including more than 12.5 million volumes and information in
all media, ranging from ancient papyri to early printed books to
electronic databases. The Library is engaged in numerous digital
initiatives designed to provide access to a full array of scholarly
information. Housed in the Sterling Memorial Library and twenty school
and departmental libraries, it employs a dynamic, diverse, and
innovative staff of over 500 who have the opportunity to work with the
highest caliber of faculty and students, participate on committees, and
are involved in other areas of staff development.  For additional
information on the Yale University Library, please visit the Library's
web site at http://www.library.yale.edu/.

Position Description
This position facilitates access to collections and services of a
complex, multi-faceted research/academic library through direct contact
with library patrons and through the development and promotion of
services and collections. The Science Librarian is a member of the
Science and Social Science Library team and participates in Yale
University Library programs and committees.

Responsibilities
The incumbent provides research support to students and faculty in the
Physics, Astronomy, Geology and Geophysics and other science departments
through research consultations, class instruction, and virtual reference
services. Maintains outreach to the Yale science community through
engagement in departmental activities, awareness of current research,
and regular communication with faculty and students. Provides research
consultations and instruction in the discovery, use, and management of
text and data. Supports research and raises awareness of research
resources through outreach efforts such as department-based office
hours, blogs, RSS feeds, mailings lists, and workshops. Creates and
maintains research guides and other research support tools. Provides
general reference service at the Center for Science and Social Science
Information (CSSSI).

The incumbent provides consultation and instruction in the discovery,
use and management of locally and externally available science datasets.
Collaborates with librarians, GIS specialists, and StatLab staff to
develop scalable, sustainable, and domain-appropriate data services in
support of science research at Yale.

Selects physics, astronomy and geology materials in all formats.
Identifies, tests, and negotiates agreements for physics, astronomy and
geology databases and data sets. Selects and acquires data resources in
the sciences for use by the Yale community; reviews licenses and
contracts for appropriate agreements, in cooperation with electronic
resources staff as needed. Works closely with the CSSSI Head of
Collections on receiving acquired resources in all formats (print,
databases and datasets) and preparing them for availability to users.

Participates in research and instruction program planning and
implementation. Participates as a team member in service program
development for the CSSSI and other science libraries. Participates in
Yale Library planning, committees, and task forces, and engages in
campus, regional, and national professional organizations and
collaborative activities.

Expected to be professionally active and represents the Library and the
University in the academic, scholarly, and professional community.
Participates in professional activities outside of Yale and monitors
developments and best practices elsewhere to help ensure the excellence
of the Yale science collection and research support services. May be
required to assist with disaster recovery efforts. May be assigned to
work at West Campus location in West Haven, CT.

Salary and Benefits
We invite you to discover the excitement, diversity, rewards and
excellence of a career at Yale University. One of the country's great
workplaces, Yale University offers exciting opportunities for meaningful
accomplishment and true growth. Our benefits package is among the best
anywhere, with a wide variety of insurance choices, liberal paid time
off, fantastic family and educational benefits, a variety of retirement
benefits, extensive recreational facilities, and much more.
  
Master's degree from an ALA-accredited program for library and
information science. Appointment to the rank of Librarian II requires a
minimum of two years of professional experience and demonstrated
professional accomplishments appropriate to the rank. Appointment to the
Librarian III rank requires at least five years of professional
experience and demonstrated professional accomplishments appropriate to
the rank.

1. Familiarity with open access publishing.
2. Familiarity with data archival procedures.
3. Familiarity with common metadata standards.
4. Demonstrated record of success designing projects and bringing them
to a conclusion in a timely fashion.
5. Demonstrated ability to work collegially and cooperatively within and
across organizations.
6. Ability to work independently with varied user groups in a complex
organization and function collaboratively in a rapidly changing team
environment.
7. Strong public service orientation.
8. Excellent analytical, organizational, oral and written
communications, and interpersonal skills.

Preferred:
1. Experience providing research support in an academic library
setting.
2. Undergraduate and/or advanced degree in science.
3. Working knowledge of physics, astronomy and geology.
4. Familiarity with XML and HTML.
5. Familiarity with principles of database design (Microsoft Access,
SQL).
6. Reading knowledge of one or more Western European languages.
