+++
nid = "2901"
jid = "00141"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-09-30 11:41"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/2901"
title = "GIS Librarian"
employer = "University of Alberta Libraries"
employerurl = "http://www.library.ualberta.ca/"
postdate = "2011-09-30"
archivedate = "2011-11-01"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Alberta Libraries, with a long tradition of service
excellence to the University and its communities, seeks a dynamic
individual
to take responsibility for its GIS program within the framework of the
academic plan and the University of Alberta Libraries. strategic
collections
directions and digital initiatives. Reporting to the Associate
University
Librarian, Collections and working within a team environment, the
successful
candidate will be responsible for the development, management and
delivery
of library services and digital initiatives relating to geospatial
information and spatial data held within the collections of the
University
of Alberta Libraries and ERA: Education and Research Archives, the
institutional repository. The GIS Librarian will have a leadership role
in
the provision of geospatial information and spatial data services within
the
University community.

The University of Alberta Libraries is Canada's second largest
research
library, with a collection exceeding seven million titles and ten
million
volumes.  The Libraries has a unique relationship with the broader
community
through NEOS, a central Alberta consortium consisting of 18 government,
hospital, college and university libraries and through The Alberta
Library.
The Libraries also has a partnership with OCLC for cataloguing of
materials.
For more information, visit our web-site at
<http://www.library.ualberta.ca/>

Working within the team structure of the Collections portfolio, and in
collaboration with the Data Library Coordinator, the Maps Librarian, and
the
members of the Digital Initiatives team, the GIS Librarian will work to
(a)
ensure unencumbered access to spatial data held within the digital
collections of the University of Alberta Libraries and ERA, (b) consult
in
the preparation and use of spatial and geo-referenced data and (c)
support
preservation activities related to spatial data.  The GIS Librarian
will
work collaboratively with others as required to ensure appropriate
discovery
tools and GIS metadata standards are in place, supported, and maintained
for
GIS collections.

NOTE: A distinction is made between geospatial information and spatial
data
above.  "Spatial data" refers specifically to digital files containing
data
(whether polygons, line segments or points) prepared for GIS
applications to
draw boundaries and locate spatially referenced objects.  "Geospatial
information," on the other hand, is used to refer to geographical
locations
within digital content.  Examples include place names or street
addresses in
text files or metadata (e.g., Henderson's Directories), longitude and
latitude coordinates in digital image metadata (many of today's
digital
cameras produce this information automatically using GPS), and
geographic
units in research data files, such at the spatial values in Statistics
Canada's Census geography.  This latter category of geospatial
information
in research data files is also called geo-referenced data, i.e.,
research
data files with a geographic variable (e.g., Postal Code or Census
geo-codes).

This is a permanent tenure-track position classified at the Librarian 1
level with a current salary range of $56,746 - $113,408 per annum.
Librarians at the University of Alberta have academic status and
participate
in a generous benefits program.
  
Qualifications include an MLS degree from an accredited library school
and
experience with geospatial information and spatial data. Applicants
must
possess a strong service orientation, excellent communication skills, a
thorough understanding of geospatial information and spatial data , an
interest in implementing new initiatives and in evaluation of current
practice, superior leadership skills, a demonstrated commitment to
cooperative action and collaborative work, and a demonstrated interest
in
the goals of the Library and the profession.
