+++
nid = "2840"
jid = "00135"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-08-02 11:40"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/2840"
title = "Data Management Planning Consultant (2 openings)"
employer = "John Hopkins University"
employerurl = "http://jhu.edu/"
postdate = "2011-08-02"
archivedate = "2011-08-15"
draft = "false"
+++
The Data Management Specialist provides consultative data management
planning support to JHU Principal Investigators.

The primary duties and responsibilities of the job:

• Manage inquiries from Principal Investigators for data management
planning support. • Provide consultative support to PIs including
evaluation of data planning needs, assessing short and long term options
and benefits, catering planning to specific granting agency
requirements, and editing data management plans. • Track specific
scientific domain areas building knowledge and expertise in data types,
formats, and needs within domain. • Identify data standards, metadata
standards, best practices for data management, etc. to continuously
build expertise and improve provision of service. • Maintain knowledge
on a broad range of data repositories including their submission,
Intellectual Property, and use arrangements, and provide guidance on
repository selection for deposit. • Proactively collaborate and
coordinate with team to plan for data management. • Collaborate with
others in the library to effectively communicate services to faculty,
researchers, and departments. • Responsible for managing short and
long-term communications and relationships with PIs. • Liaise with
Executive Director and Chief IT Architect of Data Conservancy.

Additional information: The Sheridan Libraries encompass the Milton S.
Eisenhower Library and its collections at the John Work Garrett Library,
the George Peabody Library, the Albert D. Hutzler Reading Room, and the
DC Centers. Its primary constituency is the students and faculty in the
schools of Arts & Sciences, Engineering, Carey Business School and the
School of Education. A key partner in the academic enterprise, the
library is a leader in the innovative application of information
technology and has implemented notable diversity and organizational
development programs. The Sheridan Libraries are strongly committed to
diversity. A strategic goal of the Libraries is to 'work toward
achieving diversity when recruiting new and promoting existing staff.'
The Libraries prize initiative, creativity, professionalism, and
teamwork. For information on the Sheridan Libraries, visit
www.library.jhu.edu.
  
• Masters of Science, Engineering or Library Science. • A minimum of
three (3) years combined of library, information technology,
informatics, and/or scientific research experience. • Experience working
with scientific data management and/or curation preferred. • Experience
with one or more components of the research data life cycle: creation,
processing, analyzing, preserving, providing access to, and re-using. •
Must be self motivated, pro-active, willing to take on new challenges
and solve problems with minimal supervision. • Good listener with a high
degree of customer orientation. • Superb people skills, strong
team-orientation, and professional attitude. • Clear and consistent
communicator. • Strong writing skills. • Strong project planning,
management, and execution skills. • Demonstrated ability to work with
and easily adapt to new technology.
