+++
nid = "3144"
jid = "00174"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2012-05-16 09:45"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3144"
title = "Librarian for Sociology and Psychology"
employer = "New York University"
employerurl = "http://www.nyu.edu/"
postdate = "2012-05-16"
archivedate = "2012-06-16"
draft = "false"
+++
Subject specialist supporting the research and teaching programs of
faculty, graduate and undergraduate students in the Department of
Sociology and the Departments of Psychology and Applied Psychology.
Librarians play a key role in the educational mission of NYU by
establishing strong collaborative relationships with faculty and
students, and connecting them to the services, content, and tools that
meet their research, teaching and learning needs.

This position serves as the primary library liaison to the above
departments, with special emphases on supporting the intensive use of
data by scholars in these areas and maintaining deep ties with the
Libraries' Data Service Studio; building and curating collections in all
formats; continuing a program of extensive instructional, consultation,
and research support services; and developing responsive and innovative
information and outreach services. Additionally, subject librarians
actively engage with faculty, publishers, and vendors to bring about
changes in the system of scholarly publishing and communications.

This position acts as a vital member of the Libraries' Humanities and
Social Sciences Center and reports to the Social Sciences Coordinator
in the Collections and Research Services Division, NYU Libraries. The
incumbent is deeply engaged and contributes skills and expertise to the
highly collaborative work of the department and the NYU Libraries. The
incumbent works creatively with colleagues to implement and enhance
programs and services, to deliver physical and virtual research and
reference services, and to take a leadership role on projects and
initiatives as appropriate.
  
 ALA accredited MLS and subject Master's degree required for tenure;
minimum three years of relevant library experience; ability to work
effectively with faculty, students, and staff in a team environment;
excellent oral, written, and interpersonal communications skills.
Candidates should exhibit a strong public service orientation, a high
degree of facility with technologies and systems germane to the
21st century library, and be well-versed in the issues surrounding
scholarly communications. Preference will be given to candidates with
graduate course work in Sociology, and/or Psychology. A background
in  Economics would also be desirable. Previous library experience in
instruction, collection development, and/or reference is highly
desirable.
