+++
nid = "3071"
jid = "00168"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2012-03-21 11:23"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3071"
title = "Business and Economics Librarian"
employer = "Albert R. Mann Library, Cornell University"
employerurl = "http://www.mannlib.cornell.edu/"
postdate = "2012-03-21"
archivedate = "2012-04-30"
draft = "false"
+++
Albert R. Mann Library, part of the Cornell University Library, is
looking for a creative energetic professional who is service oriented,
technically skilled, and enjoys working in an innovative work
environment.  Mann's innovations include the Economics, Statistics, and
Market Information System (ESMIS) for the U.S. Department of Agriculture
and an institutional discovery system (vivo.cornell.edu) which received
funding from NIH to expand to a national network (vivoweb.org) and has
been adopted by the USDA and a growing number of universities and
research organizations across the world.
 
Responsibilities:
The Business and Economics Librarian will:

-   Develop and lead innovative information services for the Charles H.
    Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management. 
-   Acquire and maintain expertise in information trends in the business
    and economics domains. 
-   Partner with faculty to improve the existing embedded information
    literacy program for the undergraduate business major, and the
    recently created business minor. 
-   Maintain relationships with other business and economics units. 
-   Select business and economics resources for the Mann collection.
-   Deliver information services to the Cornell community including
    reference and consulting services and instruction in information
    management.
-   Administer and manage the USDA ESMIS.
  
Required:  

-   ALA-accredited master's degree in Library or Information Science AND
    business/economics academic background.
    OR
    Undergraduate or graduate business or economics degree AND library
    or information service experience.
-   Familiarity with software and tools for information management.
-   Excellent communication, presentation, and interpersonal skills. 
-   Must enjoy providing services to a diverse audience. 
-   Demonstrated initiative and flexibility, and ability to work
    independently and collaboratively. 
-   Commitment to professional development.

 
Helpful: 

-   Interest or experience in information sciences.
-   Work experience in an academic setting, and/or instructional
    experience, especially in the area of information literacy or
    e-learning approaches.  
