+++
nid = "3058"
jid = "00163"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2012-02-29 17:38"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3058"
title = "Data Services Coordinator, Social Sciences Libraries Division"
employer = "Columbia University Libraries"
employerurl = "http://library.columbia.edu/"
postdate = "2012-02-29"
archivedate = "2012-03-31"
draft = "false"
+++
The Columbia University Libraries invites nominations and applications
for the position of Data Services Coordinator, Social Sciences Libraries
division.  The Data Service Coordinator will coordinate the development
and delivery of data services to faculty and students across the various
schools and departments served.  The incumbent will work with colleagues
in the division to identify data-intensive research initiatives within
the social sciences research community and engage opportunities for
collaboration.  The Data Services Coordinator will lead in designing and
providing support for qualitative data analysis tools and will work with
other data services providers within the Columbia University Libraries
to help develop a coordinated approach to data services programming.  As
a member of the team providing high-end data support in the Digital
Social Sciences Center,

<http://library.columbia.edu/indiv/dssc.html>, the incumbent will assist
users in finding, manipulating and analyzing numeric data and assisting
in the use of statistical software. 

The Data Services Coordinator will engage technologies emerging as
critical to research and teaching in the social sciences, including
those supporting data-intensive research, data visualization, etc.  The
Data Services Coordinator will also support the evolution and
enhancement of innovative library services and technology initiatives in
virtual environments and on mobile web and social computing platforms.
This position will report to the Director of the Social Sciences
Libraries Division.
  
The successful candidate will have:  

-   A Masters or PhD in a social science discipline such as statistics,
    economics, library science, etc., or an equivalent combination of
    education and demonstrated experience manipulating and analyzing
    numeric data
-   demonstrated experience using quantitative research tools such as
    SPSS, Stata, R. etc.
-   demonstrated ability to work collegially and cooperatively within
    and across organizations.
-   ability to work independently with varied user groups in a complex
    organization and function collaboratively in a rapidly changing team
    environment.
-   strong public service orientation.
-   excellent analytical, organizational, oral and written
    communications, and interpersonal skills.

 

Also highly desirable:

-   experience providing research support in an academic library setting
-   demonstrated experience using spatial data and GIS tools such as
    ArcGIS
-   demonstrated experience using qualitative research tools such as
    NVivio or Atlas.ti
-   familiarity with visualization technologies
-   demonstrated record of success designing projects and bringing them
    to a conclusion in a timely fashion.
