+++
nid = "3079"
jid = "00173"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2012-04-20 14:12"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3079"
title = "Geospatial Librarian"
employer = "University of Hawai'i"
employerurl = "http://library.manoa.hawaii.edu/"
postdate = "2012-04-20"
archivedate = "2012-04-20"
draft = "false"
+++
1.  The University of Hawai'i at Manoa Library is a rapidly changing
    environment and its Geospatial Librarian is expected to develop
    expertise with emerging technologies, lead and/or participate in
    innovative library projects.
2.  Under the direction of the Head of Government Documents & Maps, the
    Geospatial Librarian has primary responsibility for collection
    management and reference services for maps, aerial photographs, and
    geospatial data and participates in the staffing of the Government
    Documents & Maps Department reference desk, including some evenings
    and weekends and provide relevant expertise as a member of a team of
    instruction and reference librarians.
3.  This position sets the direction for the Maps, Aerials and
    Geographic Information Systems (MAGIS) collection and the operations
    of the MAGIS lab.
4.  This position is responsible for effective outreach to instructional
    faculty and to create opportunities for collaborative teaching.
5.  This position shall instruct students on the use of cartographic and
    geospatial data including the development and delivery of seminars,
    workshops, tutorials, web-based and other instructional materials,
    and information literacy instruction using a variety of delivery
    methods and venues.
6.  This position provides general and specialized information services,
    including reference and research consultation, to students and
    faculty via e-mail, person-to-person, chat, or other modalities.
7.  This position sets policies and procedures for the scanning of maps
    and aerial photographs, and metadata creation to make them
    discoverable using a web-based platform.
8.  This position is responsible for designing the MAGIS's digital
    landscape in an integrated fashion with the information architecture
    of Library.
  
Librarian II Minimum Qualifications

1.  ALA accredited MLS or equivalent.
2.  Applicants for all ranks must also have:
3.  Ability to multitask and manage detail.
4.  Evidence of strong oral and written communication skills.
5.  Evidence of strong critical thinking skills.
6.  Potential for leadership in a collaborative and collegial setting.
7.  Productive attitude and enthusiasm for an innovative and changing
    environment.
8.  College coursework or experience with cartographic information.
9.  High degree of computer literacy and comfort in the digital
    environment; demonstrated interest in learning new technologies and
    their applications in libraries.

Librarian III Minimum Qualifications

1.  ALA accredited MLS or equivalent.
2.  Three (3) years of professional experience at a college, university
    or research organization, or equivalent.
3.  and
4.  Twenty-four (24) post-baccalaureate credits preferably in geographic
    information systems, geography, cartography, computer science, urban
    planning, architecture, environmental management, or a related
    discipline.

Librarian IV Minimum Qualifications

1.  ALA accredited MLS or equivalent.
2.  At least seven years of appropriate experience at a college,
    university or research organization, or equivalent.
3.  and
4.  A second masters degree preferably in geographic information
    systems, geography, cartography, computer science, urban planning,
    architecture , environmental management, or a related discipline.

Desirable Qualifications

1.  Experience with geographic information systems (GIS), including
    knowledge of national metadata standards.
2.  Degree in geographic information systems, geography, cartography,
    computer science, urban planning, architecture, environmental
    management or a related discipline.
3.  Knowledge of the strategies used to obtain different types of maps,
    imagery, and spatial data, including an understanding of the kinds
    of resources available from government, commercial, and nonprofit
    publishers, their avenues of distribution, and new trends in the
    production and delivery of geospatial data.
4.  Knowledge of geographic and cartographic principles such as datums,
    projections and coordinate systems.
5.  Experience or coursework in map cataloging or metadata creation for
    geospatial data.
6.  Knowledge of collection management practices for both digital and
    print resources in a geospatial collection.
7.  Knowledge of digitization, scanning, and digital preservation
    standards.
8.  Experience or coursework in developing instruction sessions on GIS
    software and/or library resources.
9.  Knowledge of remote sensing products and GIS-related
    technologies/applications such Global Positioning System (GPS) and
    Google Earth and their incorporation into a GIS.
10. Basic knowledge of programming languages (php, xhtml, css or
    similar).
11. Knowledge of the geography and history of the Hawaiian Islands and
    the Pacific region.
