+++
nid = "3070"
jid = "00167"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2012-03-21 11:18"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3070"
title = "Health Sciences Librarian, Two year position"
employer = "Albert R. Mann Library, Cornell University"
employerurl = "http://www.mannlib.cornell.edu/"
postdate = "2012-03-21"
archivedate = "2012-04-30"
draft = "false"
+++
Albert R. Mann Library, part of the Cornell University Library, is
looking for a creative, energetic professional who is service-oriented,
technically skilled, and enjoys working in an innovative environment. 
Mann's innovations include the linked open data institutional discovery
system (vivo.cornell.edu) which received funding from NIH to expand to a
national network (vivoweb.org) and has been adopted by the USDA and a
growing number of universities and research organizations across the
world.
 
Responsibilities:
The Health Science Librarian will:

-   Develop and lead innovative information services for the growing
    population of health sciences researchers at Cornell University in
    Ithaca. 
-   Acquire and maintain expertise in information trends in the health
    sciences. 
-   Partner with campus units including the Cornell Population Program,
    the Institute on Health Economics, Health Behaviors, and
    Disparities, the Sloan Program, and the Cornell Institute for Social
    and Economic Research. 
-   Maintain active connection with the Weill Cornell Medical Library,
    located in New York City.
-   Deliver information services to the Cornell community including
    reference and consulting services and instruction in information
    management.
-   Serve as library liaison to four departments: Biology and Society,
    Nutrition, Policy Analysis and Management, and Human Development.
  
Required:  

-   ALA-accredited master's degree in Library or Information Science and
    subject background in health sciences or allied subjects.
-   Familiarity with software and tools for information management.
-   Excellent communication, presentation, and interpersonal skills. 
-   Must enjoy providing services to a diverse audience. 
-   Demonstrated initiative and flexibility, and ability to work
    independently and collaboratively. 
-   Commitment to professional development.

 
Helpful:

-   Work experience in an academic setting, and/or instructional
    experience, especially in the area of information literacy or
    e-learning approaches.  
