+++
nid = "3075"
jid = "00170"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2012-04-05 08:25"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3075"
title = "Director of Curation Services"
employer = "The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR)"
employerurl = "http://www.icpsr.umich.edu"
postdate = "2012-04-05"
archivedate = "2012-05-04"
draft = "false"
+++
The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research
(ICPSR) seeks to appoint a Director of Curation Services to maintain and
develop a comprehensive approach to data management and digital
preservation. The holder of this position will lead a team with
responsibility for policy implementation and planning across the data
lifecycle, including metadata standards, repository management, digital
preservation, and compliance with standards (such as Trusted
Repositories Audit & Certification). The selected individual will report
directly to the Director of ICPSR and will be a member of the ICPSR
senior leadership. He or she will represent the organization to ICPSR's
extensive network of partners in both the social science and the digital
archiving communities.

The individual selected for this position will hold a research faculty
appointment in ICPSR and the Institute of Social Research. The position
may be in the Archivist (Assistant, Associate or Full), Research
Scientist (Associate or Full) or Research Professor (Associate or Full)
tracks, depending upon qualifications. Joint appointment with other
University of Michigan units is possible.

Organizational Overview

The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research,
established in 1962, maintains and provides access to a vast archive of
social science data for research and instruction, and offers training in
quantitative methods. To ensure that data resources are available to
future generations of scholars, ICPSR acquires, processes, and preserves
data. In addition, ICPSR provides user support. A unit within the
Institute for Social Research (ISR) at the University of Michigan, ICPSR
is a membership-based organization, with more than 700 member colleges
and universities around the world. A Council of leading scholars and
data professionals guides and oversees its activities. More information
can be found about ICPSR at
[www.icpsr.umich.edu](http://www.icpsr.umich.edu/).

Responsibilities

-   Maintain and develop ICPSR's comprehensive digital preservation
    policy framework
-   Plan collaboratively with others to oversee the continuous
    evaluation of the digital repository, including all policies,
    standards, and workflows
-   Identify the necessary descriptive, technical, structural, and
    preservation metadata for ICPSR's diverse digital content
-   Evaluate and maintain quality control of metadata operations
-   Research other metadata standards to determine their relevance for
    ICPSR
-   Participate in the Data Documentation Initiative Alliance and in
    development of the DDI standard
-   Advise on methods for handling new types of digital content
-   Manage ICPSR's institutional records in collaboration with others
-   Promote the role of the organization within the digital preservation
    and data archive communities through a program of presentations,
    papers, and articles at conferences and meetings, and in journals
    representing key domains
-   Participate in the development of standards and good practice for
    the digital archiving community at national and international levels
-   Participate in training on lifecycle data management
-   Prepare proposals and applications for external funding to support
    both research into digital archiving and practical activities
    designed to enhance ICPSR's repository
-   Conduct and publish in the candidate's area of expertise
  
Required Qualifications

M.A. or Ph.D. in an area that relates to information systems, such as
Library Science or Information Technology, but we welcome and will
consider otherwise qualified candidates with credentials that support
the requirements of the position. Five to eight years professional
experience in the field, with a minimum of two years of experience in
the management of digital archiving activities. Excellent communication
skills, both oral and written, in the English language.

Desired Qualifications

Demonstrated ability to analyze, assess, and find creative digital
curation solutions in a complex and dynamic research-based environment.
Experience with creating and applying metadata standards to describe
digital collections. Familiarity with data used in social science
research and protection of confidentiality in research on human
subjects. Experience in a managerial role (including fiscal
responsibility and supervision of staff) on multiple projects.
Demonstrated scholarly productivity, along with the proven ability to
work both independently and collaboratively in a diverse environment.
Experience in writing grant proposals and applications, and in serving
as a principal investigator.
