+++
nid = "3031"
jid = "00154"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2012-01-30 14:27"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3031"
title = "Assistant/Associate Professor Data Librarian"
employer = "Illinois State University"
employerurl = ""
postdate = "2012-01-30"
archivedate = "2012-06-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The person in this tenure-track library faculty position is responsible
for planning, implementing, overseeing, and evaluating the content,
services, projects, systems, and other resources of the Data and Digital
Materials Center (DDMC), including the operations of ISU ReD (Research
and eData), Illinois State University's new institutional repository,
as well as other data sets and data curation projects managed by or
involving Milner Library.  The DDMC and its initiatives support the
mission of the library to advance the teaching, learning, research, and
service activities throughout the university. This person works in
collaboration with other individuals and groups in the library, on
campus, and beyond to advance data and institutional repository projects
and services.

  
Required Qualifications:

-   Master's degree in library/information science from an
    ALA-accredited institution.
-   A second advanced degree is required for tenure.
-   At least one year of recent experience with institutional repository
    or data curation project management within a medium or large
    organization.


Competencies, Required:

-   Facility with a wide variety of data sets, including GIS and
    geospatial data, raw data, audio files, images and streaming media,
    etc.
-   Knowledge of academic scholarly production processes.
-   Familiarity with the technical aspects of institutional repositories
    and data curation systems.
-   Demonstrated ability to plan, manage, and oversee complex projects,
    meet deadlines, and prioritize work in alignment with the service
    goals of the department, library, and university.
-   Knowledge of current practices and opportunities regarding
    institutional repositories and data curation initiatives.
-   Strong commitment to meeting the needs of users and diverse user
    groups in a rapidly changing academic library environment.
-   Ability to supervise, motivate, and encourage staff, with a strong
    commitment to staff development.
-   Ability to interact effectively with faculty, students, and staff
    from diverse cultural backgrounds.
-   Ability to work both independently and collaboratively in a
    collegial, team- and project-based work environment and maintain
    positive professional working relationships.
-   Proficient organization skills, including, but not limited to,
    planning and budgeting.
-   Strong written and oral communication skills.


Competencies, Desired:

-   IR experience in an academic library or at a library with a
    comparable technology infrastructure.
-   Familiarity with licensing and purchasing agreements, rights
    management, and intellectual property issues.
-   A record of flexibility, creativity, and commitment to diversity.
-   Demonstrated potential to meet university promotion and tenure
    requirements.
