+++
nid = "3069"
jid = "00166"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2012-03-21 11:09"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3069"
title = "Numeric & Geospatial Data Librarian"
employer = "Northwestern University Library"
employerurl = "http://www.library.northwestern.edu"
postdate = "2012-03-21"
archivedate = "2012-04-15"
draft = "false"
+++
Northwestern University Library seeks a numeric and geospatial data
librarian to oversee a unit within the Research and Information Services
(RIS) Department.  This newly conceived unit is responsible for the
development and implementation of outreach, educational, and research
support services to faculty, students and staff users of numeric and
geospatial data; business and management collections and services; and
government information. To support these increasingly important areas of
scholarly endeavor, members of the unit are charged with developing
innovative, specialized services and collections that are connected by
format and genre. Unit members will work in close alliance with other
members of the RIS department to deliver both general and specialized
research services and collections. The numeric and geospatial data
librarian serves as the library's selector for the numeric data
collection, and manager of the numeric data collection budget.  Directly
supervises three librarians, one data management specialist, and one
geospatial and cartographic assistant.
  
QUALIFICATIONS INCLUDE: Master's degree from an ALA accredited program
in library and information science or equivalent combination of
education and relevant library experience.  At least 4 years of
experience working in an academic library setting, specializing in data
and geospatial services.  Expertise with GIS.  Supervisory experience.
 Excellent interpersonal and communication skills. Ability to work in a
dynamic, changing environment.  (Preferred)  Experience with business
and management collections and services and with government information
resources.  For more information, go to
http://www.library.northwestern.edu/about/library-administration/jobs.
