+++
nid = "3169"
jid = "00182"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2012-07-11 13:56"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3169"
title = "Research Fellow (Hilda Survey)"
employer = "Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research "
employerurl = "http://melbourneinstitute.com/"
postdate = "2012-06-22"
archivedate = "2012-07-31"
draft = "false"
+++
The Melbourne Institute is a research-only department within the Faculty
of Business and Economics at the University of Melbourne. It is
Australia's leading and longest standing research institute in the
field of economics, undertaking cutting-edge research into key issues
relevant to modern economic and social policy.

The Research Fellow will work closely with senior Melbourne Institute
staff within the HILDA Survey research team, providing leadership and
fostering excellence in research. He/she will be an accomplished
researcher in the field of applied microeconomics. The position would
suit someone who has completed their PhD and already has some research
experience evidenced by publication in peer reviewed journals. Previous
experience in contract research is also an advantage.


He/she will be expected to contribute to the research effort of the
Melbourne Institute as a whole, so an ability to work in teams is
essential. The post holder would also be expected to make original and
pro-active contributions to the research program and be willing to
undertake a mix of academic research and policy-driven research and
consultancies.

Specific duties include:

•  Development of a research agenda in the broad area of household and
family economics built around the analysis of HILDA Survey, and other
panel survey, data, with a view to publication in high quality
international journals.

•  Collaboration with other research staff in the HILDA team with a view
to supporting and producing high quality academic research output.

•  Leading role in the preparation of the annual HILDA Survey
Statistical Report.



  
ESSENTIAL

1.  A PhD in economics or near completion of such a PhD or appropriate
    equivalent qualifications.
2.  Expertise in statistical analysis of survey data, and especially
    panel data
3.  Expertise in use of statistical and econometric software (such as
    STATA)
4.  Research interests in applied microeconomics
5.  An ability to conduct independent research and assume responsibility
    for the development and completion of research papers.
6.  An ability to work as part of a research team, and work with other
    members of staff to meet the aims and deadlines of a project.
7.  Desire to pursue a research career in one or more the following
    areas: (i) income inequality and mobility; (ii) employment and
    working time dynamics; (iii) economic and subjective well-being;
    and (iv) household / family economics.



DESIRABLE

1.  An existing track record of publication in relevant academic
    journals.
