+++
nid = "3160"
jid = "00179"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2012-06-15 11:40"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3160"
title = "Numeric and Geospatial Data Services Librarian"
employer = "Cornell Institute for Social and Economic Research (CISER)"
employerurl = "http://ciser.cornell.edu/"
postdate = "2012-06-15"
archivedate = "2012-07-16"
draft = "false"
+++
The Cornell Institute for Social and Economic Research (CISER) seeks an
innovative, collaborative, and service-oriented numeric and geospatial
data services librarian.
 
CISER has strengths in social and economic data, computational
infrastructure, secure data storage and remote access, and a robust
data-sharing environment including a data archive that dates to 1981. 
The successful applicant will spearhead efforts to further develop
CISER's data-rich environment, notably via enhancements to CISER's Data
Archive and by participating in data-intensive collaborations with
researchers and other librarians on campus.
 
Cornell social scientists are on the cutting edge of interdisciplinary
research questions using complex data resources.  Growing recognition of
the value of interdisciplinary and data-driven research affords CISER
and its Cornell partners with opportunities to support numeric and
geospatial research and a lifecycle approach to data management.  The
individual in this position will play a key role in anticipating,
developing, and implementing services to support these activities.
 
The CISER Numeric and Geospatial Data Librarian position will encompass
many skills, capacities, and knowledge areas:
 
Responsibilities:

-   Manage and Enhance CISER's Data Archive:
-   Develop and manage the collection of social and economic datasets in
    CISER's Data Archive, including acquisition of new datasets.
-   Lead CISER working group to design and implement ongoing structural
    improvements and innovations in the CISER Data Archive.
-   Contribute to efforts to promote and enable the adoption of metadata
    standards in the social sciences.

 
Provide and Collaborate on Research Data Management across Cornell:

-   Serve on the consultants group of Cornell's Research Data
    Management Services Group (RDMSG) to assist social science
    researchers in the writing and implementation of grant-required data
    management plans.
-   Serve on selected RDMSG implementation teams, per the RDMSG
    Management Council.


Establish and Grow CISER's Data and GIS Outreach

-   Provide training and support in the use of numeric, geospatial, and
    GIS data
-   Provide mapping strategies for large and/or complex sets of data
-   Locate and acquire digital numeric, geospatial and GIS data sets and
    associated software
-   Support data management efforts for numeric and geospatial data
-   Expand data curation services to include numeric, geospatial and GIS
    data sets
-   Liaise and form productive partnerships with other numeric and
    geospatial experts on campus, including Cornell University Library
    (CUL), the Cornell University Geospatial Information Repository
    (CUGIR), and the Program on Applied Demography (PAD).

 
Maintain and Expand Outreach and Professional Engagement:

-   Promote the resources and services of the CISER Data Archive through
    announcements, presentations, webinars, etc., to the Cornell
    community.
-   Participate in the writing of proposals to funding agencies and in
    the execution of accepted proposals for innovations in social
    science data management.
-   Establish and maintain professional relationships between CISER and
    other organizations and individuals engaged in the pursuit of
    similar or complementary goals.
-   Conduct, present, and publish applied research in areas related to
    discovery, organization, and usability of social science data
    resources across their lifecycle.
-   Coordinate with Other CISER Data Services Professionals in the
    provision of all aspects of data-related services to the Cornell
    community and external users. 
  
The successful candidate will be a dynamic individual with a strong
proclivity to explore new methods for enhancing the services CISER
provides to researchers.  She or he will not fear experimentation,
innovation, change, success, or occasional failure in developing
research data management services and will understand how to build
successful teams and how to coach staff as they build new skills.   She
or he will thrive in a field that will continue to experience constant
change and will be comfortable to leave behind methods that no longer
support the goals and mission of a social science research support unit.

Required Qualifications

-   Master's degree in Library and Information Science or relevant
    social science discipline.
-   Minimum of two years experience working with large social science
    datasets and familiarity with major data resources such as ICPSR and
    the U.S. Census Bureau.
-   Knowledge and experience with social science data and statistical
    software such as SAS, Stata, SPSS, or R.
-   Knowledge or experience of GIS data and software, such as ArcGIS.
-   Demonstrated evidence of excellent communications and interpersonal
    skills.


Preferred Qualifications

-   Experience with metadata practices and standards such as DDI,
    OAI-PMH, MODS, METS, PREMIS, FGDC or MARC.
-   Knowledge of qualitative data analysis software such as Atlas.ti.
-   Experience teaching workshops of a technical nature.
-   Demonstrated interest in cutting-edge web-based technologies for
    augmentation, presentation, or manipulation of research data; an
    enthusiasm to promote use of such tools to empower Cornell social
    scientists.
-   Two years plus of supervisory experience.

 
