+++
nid = "3472"
jid = "00231"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-11-19 13:27"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3472"
title = "Director, Research Data Service"
employer = "University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign"
employerurl = "http://illinois.edu/"
postdate = "2013-10-28"
archivedate = "2013-11-30"
draft = "false"
+++
**Position Available:*
-  The expected start date is as soon as possible
after the closing date. This is a 100%, twelve-month, tenure-system
appointment.

 

**Responsibilities:*
-   The Director of the Research Data Service
provides leadership and direction for the newly-established campus-wide
Research Data Service (RDS) at the University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign.  The RDS is a campus-wide service headquartered in the
University Library that provides support to researchers to manage,
preserve, and make their data accessible to the research community. The
RDS provides support for campus researchers, colleges, research centers
and groups, in partnership with the University of Illinois Office of the
Vice Chancellor for Research (OVCR), CITES (Campus Information
Technologies and Educational Services), NCSA (National Center for
Supercomputing Applications), Office of the Provost, and GSLIS (Graduate
School of Library and Information Science). 

 

The Director is responsible for leadership, management, and planning for
the programmatic, administrative, and operational activities of the RDS
for the University.   Reporting to the Associate University Librarian
for Research and Technology, the Director works closely with campus
committees and groups that provide advice and oversight for RDS programs
and services. The Director leads an implementation and operational group
of faculty and staff, and consults regularly with faculty and staff
across the campus stakeholder units, as well as the Library, on the
development of the RDS.  The initial emphasis of the position will be
to: plan and identify program objectives and scope; formulate program
goals, policies, and processes; identify staffing, operational, and
resource needs; and implement the operational elements of the RDS. 

 

Duties include:

-   Lead and manage the efforts of staff supporting the Research Data
    Service program, and the associated data management activities in
    the University Library, CITES, NCSA, and allied units;
-   Consult regularly with campus stakeholders, including a campus-level
    oversight committee and a steering group that may be established to
    guide service and policy development for the RDS;
-   Coordinate and support the RDS-related activities of Library faculty
    and staff who contribute to research data management, curation,
    preservation and access.  This includes subject specialists, data
    services librarians and functional liaisons (archivists, curators,
    preservation professionals, metadata professionals, and IT
    professionals) and related Scholarly Commons programs.  Works
    closely with the Library eResearch Implementation Committee on the
    development of user-focused research data programs and services for
    the campus.
-   Develop effective partnerships with units that contribute services;
-   Ensure consistent levels of research data management services
    through cross-program coordination on campus. .
-   Identify strategies for understanding the evolving research data
    curation and service needs of the University's researchers;
-   Evolve and modify the program scope, services, and best practices of
    the RDS so as to be consistent with the goals and mission of the
    Library and campus;
-   Coordinate with, other campus units, such as CITES, OVCR, NCSA,
    GSLIS.
-   Seek partnerships with other organizations, within and beyond the
    University, including Internet2, CIC (Committee for Institutional
    Cooperation), Digital Library Federation, Research Data Alliance,
    disciplinary repositories, and national data management
    organizations and initiatives;
-   Play a national role in data management and services initiatives;
-   Contribute to the growing body of research literature in various
    aspects of data services and related endeavors.

 

**Environment:*
-  The University of Illinois Library at Urbana-Champaign
is one of the preeminent research libraries in the world. With more than
13 million volumes and significant digital resources, it ranks second in
size among academic research libraries in the United States and first
among public university libraries in the world. As the intellectual
heart of the campus, the Library is committed to maintaining the
strongest possible collections and services and engaging in research and
development activities in pursuit of the University's mission of
teaching, scholarship, and public service. The Library currently employs
approximately 90 faculty and 300 academic professionals, staff, and
graduate assistants. For more detailed information, please visit
<<http://www.library.illinois.edu/>>.  The Library consists of
multiple departmental libraries located across campus, as well as an
array of central public, technical, and administrative service units.
The Library also encompasses a variety of virtual service points and
"embedded librarian" programs.

 

The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign is one of the original 37
public land-grant institutions created after President Abraham Lincoln
signed the Morrill Act in 1862. The Academic Ranking of World
Universities (ARWU) ranks the University of Illinois as 25th in the
World (2010); 4th World rank in Engineering/Technology and Computer
Sciences (2010); 18th World rank in Life and Agriculture Sciences
(2010); 23rd World rank in Natural Sciences and Mathematics (2010). The
University has 2,548 faculty members, including 1,851 tenure/tenure
track, and 697 visiting faculty and instructional staff, and 12,239
graduate and professional students (among its 44,000 total students). It
consistently ranks among the top ten U.S. Universities in number of
earned doctorates awarded annually in 2012, $583,754,000 was spent on
research and development in science and engineering.
  
***Required:**
-  ALA-accredited Master's degree or advanced degree with
relevant experience in providing data management services to
researchers; knowledge of data management, curation, and preservation
principles and practices; knowledge of data management and curation
technologies; demonstrated ability to work collaboratively and
effectively with others in a team environment and within a complex and
fluid organizational environment; evidence of excellent communication
and analytical skills; evidence of ability to perform research,
publication, and service consonant with university standards for tenure;
must be eligible to begin work immediately.  ****

***Preferred:***  Advanced degree in relevant computational, data
science, or information technology field; Coursework or specialization
in data curation or preservation activities; database design experience;
knowledge of library information technologies and practices; software
development experience in a web-based environment; evidence of research,
publication, and service consonant with university standards for tenure.

Salary commensurate with credentials and experience. Librarians have
faculty rank, and must demonstrate excellence in librarianship,
research, and university/professional/community service in order to meet
university standards for tenure and promotion. For more information, see
<<http://www.library.illinois.edu/committee/promo/pta.html>>.
