+++
nid = "3441"
jid = "00216"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-07-18 10:39"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3441"
title = "Librarian for Geospatial Information Systems (GIS) Services (re-opened)"
employer = "New York University Libraries"
employerurl = "http://library.nyu.edu/"
postdate = "2013-07-18"
archivedate = "2014-01-31"
draft = "false"
+++
New York University Libraries seeks a GIS Services Librarian to support
the research and teaching programs of the university using Geographic
Information Systems (GIS) technology and resources. The incumbent will
have responsibility for building and curating our emerging spatial data
collection and for the provision of services in support of robust
geospatial research across many programs and disciplines at NYU.

The GIS Services Librarian is based in Data Services, a joint NYU
Libraries and NYU Information Technology Services (ITS) department that
supports quantitative, qualitative, and geospatial research at NYU. Data
Services offers access to specialty software packages, statistical, GIS,
and qualitative data analysis training and support, and consulting
expertise for many aspects of numeric, qualitative, and spatial data for
research, including data access, analysis, collection, data management,
and preservation.This position reports to the Co-Coordinator of Data
Services in the Collections and Research Services Division of NYU
Libraries.

The successful candidate will work collaboratively with colleagues in
Data Services, across the Division of Libraries, Information Technology
Services, and across NYU's Global Network University to provide access
to spatial data collections. He or she will research and select GIS data
resources, support spatial data preservation activities, and work with
others to ensure that discovery tools and metadata standards are in
place and maintained for NYU's GIS collections. In addition, the GIS
Services Librarian will participate in instruction and consultation
activities related to the access, preparation, and use of spatial data
by NYU patrons.

NYU subject librarians serve as partners in the educational mission of
the University by establishing collaborative relationships with faculty;
building and curating collections in relevant formats; providing and
developing innovative services in support of research, teaching, and
learning; and teaching research strategies in a variety of contexts.
Additionally, subject librarians actively engage with faculty,
publishers, and vendors to bring about changes in the system of
scholarly publishing and communications.
  
Required:

-   ALA-accredited MLS and subject Master's degree required for tenure;
-   Minimum 3-5 years of relevant library experience, including
    intensive involvement with geospatial and/or quantitative data
    products and processes;
-   Ability to work effectively with patrons and colleagues in a
    collaborative team environment;
-   Excellent oral, written, and interpersonal communications skills.
-   Candidates should exhibit a strong public service orientation, a
    high degree of facility with technologies and systems germane to the
    21st-century library, and be well-versed in the issues surrounding
    scholarly communications.

Preferred:

Preference will be given to candidates with coursework in GIS or
Geography and/or certification in GIS. Proficiency with the latest
versions of the ESRI suite of GIS applications and/or other GIS
applications such as QGIS, OpenGIS, and ERDAS is preferred, as is
knowledge of metadata standards related to the description, access, and
preservation of geospatial data including FGDC and ISO 19115. Knowledge
of open source GIS applications is desired. Experience with data
management planning is strongly desired.
