+++
nid = "3437"
jid = "00213"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-06-26 12:07"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3437"
title = "Data Curator"
employer = "Databrary"
employerurl = "http://databrary.org/"
postdate = "2013-06-26"
archivedate = "2013-08-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The Databrary project at New York University seeks a Data Curator, an
information specialist who will work with researchers in developmental
science to acquire and organize the content of the Databrary digital
library. While its content is heterogeneous, a significant portion of
the library is video material.

### Responsibilities

You will work in close collaboration with individual faculty and
researchers across the country in preparing files for deposit, including

-   Analysis of the structure of study data;
-   Data normalization, cleaning, authority management;
-   Organization of digital and physical inventories.

You will also work in close collaboration with the Databrary software
developers to

-   Devise metadata schema that are flexible but that also offer
    incentives to consistency;
-   Devise effective discovery services that function across
    heterogeneous metadata, and which foster interactions among a highly
    diverse community of researchers, including UX design and
    evaluation;
-   Create best practices for long-term sustainability of data formats,
    including video formats, such as format migration and transcoding;
-   Create deposit, maintenance, and annotation workflows;
-   Create taxonomy(ies) and initial tag sets.
  
### Required

-   MLS and 3-5 years experience in a related field, such as
    developmental science, metadata schema design and management,
    taxonomy management, or equivalent education and experience;
-   Working knowledge of data management, including metadata, data
    retrieval and research data use, format migration, preservation;
-   Demonstrated experience in consulting with faculty regarding
    technology or metadata options/requirements;
-   Excellent oral and written communication skills.

### Preferred

-   Familiarity with video data and/or sensor data.
-   Familiarity with data management technologies such as XML, SQL, unix
    filesystems.
-   Familiarity with current efforts in annotation standards.
