+++
nid = "3448"
jid = "00219"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-08-08 10:27"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3448"
title = "Associate Director for Information Technology and Digital Development"
employer = "MIT Libraries"
employerurl = "http://libraries.mit.edu/"
postdate = "2013-08-08"
archivedate = "2013-09-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The MIT Libraries seek an innovative and enterprising leader to fill its
senior technology position.  The Associate Director for Information
Technology and Digital Development leads the Libraries' technology
strategy and manages IT development in furtherance of the Libraries'
initiatives and priorities.  S/he has broad responsibility for
information technology across the Libraries, including the assessment of
IT trends and maintenance of important relationships with key players
outside the Libraries.
 
Reporting to the Director of Libraries, the Associate Director plays an
essential role in shaping the future of the MIT Libraries' digital
environment.  S/he provides strategic direction to ensure that the
Libraries maintain a scalable and sustainable technology infrastructure,
provide reliable computing services for library users and staff
including robust web and virtual services, and support expanding digital
initiatives for strategic priorities that include digital learning,
global engagement, scholarly publishing, and content management and
curation services.  The Associate Director will collaborate with the
Director of Research to support the advancement of the Libraries'
digital technology research efforts and to facilitate technology
transfer into the enterprise library environment.
 
The Associate Director is a member of the senior management team and
contributes to long-range planning, program development and evaluation,
resource development, budget formulation, staff planning and
development, and allocation of resources in support of the Libraries'
mission.  S/he also provides leadership in the coordination and
assessment of IT operations and innovation throughout the MIT
Libraries.
 
The Associate Director serves as the Libraries' primary liaison with
MIT's Information Services and Technology department as well as other IT
service organizations at the Institute.  S/he is a key representative
for the MIT Libraries with organizations such as the Coalition for
Networked Information, EDUCAUSE, DuraSpace, Digital Preservation
Network, Digital Library Federation, and the Digital Public Library of
America, collaborating and participating actively in the national and
international development of digital library models, standards, and
solutions at scale.
  
Master's degree in library or information science from an ALA-accredited
program, or a master's degree in a relevant field. Seven or more years
of increasingly responsible management and supervisory experience in an
academic or research institution.  Demonstrated knowledge of current
trends and issues in the application of technology to libraries and
higher education.  Experience in planning for the delivery of
information resources in a diverse computing environment.  Demonstrated
experience building and maintaining effective partnerships and
collaborations.  The ability to develop creative solutions, meet
deadlines, and a demonstrated record of leadership and achievement in
the academic library profession or a related profession.  Demonstrated
experience in successfully managing technology staff, teams and
projects.  Evidence of excellent communication, interpersonal,
analytical, and problem-solving skills.
