+++
nid = "3371"
jid = "00196"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-02-01 15:01"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3371"
title = "Data Production Specialist"
employer = "Roper  Center"
employerurl = "http://www.ropercenter.uconn.edu/"
postdate = "2013-01-17"
archivedate = "2013-02-28"
draft = "false"
+++
This is an exciting time for the Center's data curation  and processing
team who are enhancing data management methods and metadata structures
for born digital materials, while streamlining workflows in order to
accommodate archiving a broader and more diverse collection of
materials.  The Data Production Specialist is a new position within the
archive team and will work to streamline work processing, integrating
best practices for quality assurance. This opening is an opportunity for
the right candidate to play a leading role in supporting long-term
management of research data throughout the data lifecycle, including
issues of digital preservation and access, intellectual property rights,
and security of sensitive data.

Responsibilities:

-   Manages and coordinates various workflows for dataset and summary
    data release in accordance with expanding digital curation and
    online accessibility requirements
-   Analyzes processing streams to develop more efficient production
    workflows
-   Oversees the production of and builds metadata content for databases
    served by online retrieval systems for data discovery to external
    clients, including the preparation of materials for iPOLL, a
    question level database
-   Produces documentation to clearly describe methods of data
    collection and reporting 
-   Assists in research, review, testing and evaluation of support
    products or enhancements.
-   Assists in the development of archival tools and services to support
    data curation.    
-   Develops scripts, writes, and maintains programs as required for
    workflow processing.
-   Advises users on the availability of data and provides user support
    of Center collections
-   Coordinates regular ongoing data acquisitions with data providers
-   Communicates with data producers to secure all necessary metadata
    pertaining to archived survey materials.
-   Participates in the development and adoption of archival standards
    for the Center's collections
-   Performs other related duties as required.
  
-   BA/BS in related field and (including but, not limited to
    Information Science, Social Science, Computer Science) and 1-3 years
    experience. Candidates with a relevant MA/MS will be given
    preference.
-   Demonstrated metadata development skills, strong data skills,
    analytical reasoning and logical problem solving along with, a
    working knowledge of issues and challenges related to data
    management/curation, including format migration, preservation,
    metadata, data retrieval and research data use.
-   Able to manage time and multiple projects in a complex, changing
    environment with a positive, flexible, creative and innovative
    attitude.
-   Demonstrated ability to work individually and collaboratively in a
    team environment.
-   Familiarity with one or more current scientific data and metadata
    conventions.
-   Excellent written and verbal communication skills *and
-  strong
    editing skills
-   The ability to acquire new technological skills and resolve problems
    in a resourceful and timely manner. Demonstrated ability to meet
    deadlines within a production environment.
-   Excellent organizational skills, accuracy and attentiveness to
    detail
-   Experience training/consulting with users on computing problems, or
    programming in a large data processing environment.
-   A demonstrated ability to oversee student and/or professional staff

 

### Other Desirable Qualifications/Skills

-   Candidates with a relevant MA/MS will be given strong preference.
-   Programming experience.
-   Familiarity with long-term management of research data throughout
    the data lifecycle and with common metadata standards, e.g., DDI;
    understanding of ontology and semantic relationships highly
    preferred.
-   Knowledge of common development tools & languages, e.g. Java, SQL,
    XML/XSLT, PHP, Perl.
-   Coursework or extensive experience in data management and curation.
