+++
nid = "3433"
jid = "00209"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-06-25 12:17"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3433"
title = "Data Services Specialist"
employer = "Princeton University Libraries"
employerurl = "http://dss.princeton.edu"
postdate = "2013-06-25"
archivedate = "2013-07-31"
draft = "false"
+++
The Princeton University Library is one of the world's leading research
libraries, serving a diverse community of 5,200 undergraduates, 2,600
graduate students, 853 faculty members, and many visiting scholars.  Its
holdings include more than 7 million printed volumes, 5 million
manuscripts, 2 million non-print items, and extensive collections of
digital text, data, and images.  The Library employs a dedicated and
knowledgeable staff of more than 300 professional and support staff
working in a large central library, 9 specialized branches, and 3
storage facilities.
 
Available: Immediately
 
Major Responsibilities: Provides statistical and software consulting
services for undergraduates, graduate students and faculty engaged in
quantitative analysis of machine-readable data in a variety of academic
disciplines, particularly economics, finance, politics, public policy,
and sociology. Assists patrons in the choice, application, and
interpretation of quantitative methods, and with the use of statistical
software needed to implement these methods. Retrieves/manipulates
complex data from a variety of sources, including CD-ROMs and Internet
archives; transfers data between platforms for use in multiple computing
environments, including UNIX and Windows; provides extracts/tables based
on electronic data, including government census/survey data and public
opinion polls. Organizes, publicizes and conducts group instruction
sessions and individual consultations as needed for various
constituencies with significant data services requirements, including
the departments of Politics, Economics, Woodrow Wilson School, and
others. Provides consulting and instructional services at the Data and
Statistical Services Lab and, as needed, onsite at other Library
facilities on campus. Maintains web presence, including creation of
documentation. Evaluates and designs web-based access tools and end user
systems. Maintains efficient operation of the Data and Statistical
Services Lab and Princeton's digital data archive. Processes data and
creates metadata for files in the data archive. For more detail on Data
and Statistical Services, consult http://dss.princeton.edu/.
  
Essential Qualifications: Required: Master's degree and expertise with
at least one major statistical package heavily used at Princeton (STATA,
R, SPSS). Experience providing direct data services to patrons,
including research consultations or instruction. Strong background in
computing and quantitative data analysis.


Preferred Qualifications: Advanced degree in a quantitative social
science or equivalent experience.  Demonstrated ability and experience
functioning successfully in a fast-paced environment with a strong
service orientation.  Experience in using complex machine-readable data;
programming ability; some UNIX/server administration background.
Expertise with Stata and R.


Desirable: Strong econometrics background or familiarity with economic
and/or financial data.  Expertise with other statistical packages,
particularly SAS and MATLAB.
