+++
nid = "3438"
jid = "00214"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-06-27 08:01"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3438"
title = "Geospatial Services Librarian"
employer = "Pennsylvania State University Libraries"
employerurl = "http://geospatial services librarianwww.libraries.psu.edu"
postdate = "2013-06-27"
archivedate = "2013-07-31"
draft = "false"
+++
he Pennsylvania State University Libraries seeks a creative and
service-oriented geospatial services librarian for a tenure-track
faculty position, serving as the subject specialist for the geospatial
data and maps collections at the University Park campus. This position
is part of the Libraries Research Hub, a collaborative effort to build a
central service point within Pattee/Paterno Library for advanced
researchers.

**Responsibilities:*
-  The Geospatial Services Librarian reports to the
Head of the Social Sciences Library and will work collaboratively as
part of the Research Hub's Data and Geospatial User Services team
(consisting of the Geospatial Services Librarian, the Social Sciences
Data Specialist, the GIS Specialist, the Statistical Consultant, and GIS
Interns) to provide strategic vision and leadership in developing and
promoting a suite of geospatial services for faculty, staff, and
students.

-   Reference and Research: Provide reference assistance and one-on-one
    research consultation for geospatial information and maps research
    at all levels in person at the Research Hub, in the Donald W. Hamer
    Maps Library, at other key library service points, and with our
    online learning programs (particularly with the GIS certification
    program).
-   Liaison Activities: Identify and cultivate partnerships with other
    university programs and departments on geospatial initiatives,
    particularly those with an emphasis on human geography, ecology, and
    mapping. Participate in the activities of key university groups
    engaged in geospatial information initiatives, including (but not
    limited to): Pennsylvania Spatial Data Access (PASDA), the Social
    Sciences Research Institute, AgExtension, the Population Research
    Institute's Geographic Information Analysis (GIA Core), and The
    GeoVISTA Center.
-   Lead and develop geospatial/GIS projects for the Maps Library to
    enhance access traditional collections. Supervise the Maps Library
    GIS Specialist and GIS Interns.
-   Teaching, learning and literacies: Design and deliver a geospatial
    literacy program that supports the academic curriculum across the
    University.
-   Collections content and access: Evaluate GIS and mapping resources.
    Build, maintain, and assess collections of spatial data from
    university and local, state, and federal government sources, as well
    as from commercial sources to support research and teaching needs
    across the University. Collaborate with librarians in related
    subject areas to identify spatial data needs.
-   Scholarly communications: Provide assistance in the use and
    management of spatial data. Assist in educating and informing
    faculty and graduate students on scholarly communication issues such
    as open access initiatives, digital publishing, copyright, and
    digital curation. Promote and provide assistance in the use of
    Scholarsphere, Penn State's repository service.
-   Research and service: Engage in research, scholarly publication, and
    professional service activities in areas appropriate to academic
    librarianship and geospatial information systems.
-   Diversity: Support diversity initiatives that create a welcoming and
    inclusive climate at the University Libraries.
  
**Requirements.*
-  Master of Library Science degree from an
ALA-accredited institution or an advanced degree in a relevant
discipline. Experience with geographical information systems, and
knowledge of ESRI's ArcGIS software. Familiarity with geospatial
methods, spatial data formats and models, and spatial statistics.
Ability to work both independently and collaboratively in a team
environment; excellent oral and written communication and interpersonal
skills; and the potential to achieve the requirements for tenure and
promotion in the areas of librarianship, research and service. Please
visit <http://www.libraries.psu.edu/psul/policies/ulhrg07>.html to learn
more about the university Libraries Promotion and Tenure Guidelines.

**Preferred Qualifications:*
-  Relevant experience at an academic or
research library. Familiarity with one or more standard statistical
software packages such as SAS, SPSS, or STATA and with UNIX. Experience
with a programing language such as Python or PHP is highly desirable.
