+++
nid = "3485"
jid = "00239"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-12-13 09:29"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3485"
title = "Director of Research Data Services"
employer = "University of New Mexico"
employerurl = "http://www.unm.edu/"
postdate = "2013-12-13"
archivedate = "2014-01-31"
draft = "false"
+++
The College of University Libraries & Learning Sciences has an opening
for a Director of Research Data Services with an anticipated start date
of May 2014. This is a full-time (12 month), tenure-track position that
includes comprehensive benefits. The faculty rank, tenure status, and
salary are negotiable based on qualifications and experience.


This is an exciting time for the College of University Libraries &
Learning Sciences (UL&LS) as it expands its support for research data
services to meet the needs of faculty and students. The Director of
Research Data Services leads the scientific data curation initiative
that is aimed at assisting researchers with collection, management,
preservation, and sharing of research data. The Director also serves as
UL&LS scientific data lead on policy, service, and cyberinfrastructure
development and will guide the innovative use of technology to advance
the mission and goals of the University. The Director 1) advises UL&LS
senior leadership on emerging technologies and opportunities in data
services and 2) in collaboration with existing technology teams,
develops and manages technology services, solutions, and staff to meet
and exceed research goals within the University of New Mexico (UNM). The
Director may teach graduate and undergraduate courses in information
sciences and advise master's degree and doctoral students. The Director
will conduct research and produce scholarly publications in the area of
information sciences. This position will report to the Dean of UL&LS.

The UL&LS integrates the UNM values of Excellence, Access with Support
to Succeed, Integrity, Diversity, Respectful Relationships, Freedom and
Sustainability into all we do. The UL&LS adds to UNM's values: Service,
Trust, Collaboration and Accountability.

Primary Duties

-   Lead the development and implementation of the Research Data
    Services Program, in consultation with other faculty, staff, and
    stakeholders.
-   Identify strategies for understanding and responding to the evolving
    research data services needs of university researchers.
-   Evolve and modify program scope, services, procedures, and practices
    consistent with the goals and mission of the college and in response
    to program evaluation and assessment, user needs, and resource
    availability.
-   Develop, coordinate and manage Research Data Services Team including
    hiring, evaluation, and training.
-   Analyze staffing, budget, and resource programmatic requirements.
-   Ensure cross-program coordination in the implementation and delivery
    of Research Data Services, particularly between this program and the
    College's Outreach and Academic & Research Technology Services
    programs.
-   Maintain an active research agenda.
-   As appropriate, teach and participate in faculty governance
    meetings; and participate in UL&LS management and project meetings,
    as required.
-   Participate in college wide projects and services.


Environment
The University of New Mexico is a member of the Association of Research
Libraries, the Greater Western Library Alliance, and the New Mexico
Consortium of Academic Libraries, and leads the LIBROS Consortium that
hosts the shared catalog for fourteen academic libraries in New Mexico.
The College of University Libraries & Learning Sciences contains over 3
million volumes and includes four branch libraries: Centennial Science
and Engineering Library; Fine Arts & Design Library; Parish Memorial
Library (management and social sciences); and Zimmerman Library
(education and humanities). Planning is currently underway in Zimmerman
Library for the implementation of a Learning Commons with a Combined
Service Point as the centerpiece. Zimmerman Library also houses the
Center for Southwest Research and Special Collections. The UL&LS is a
degree-granting college. UNM is a Tier I Research Institution and a
Hispanic-Serving Institution. 
  
Required:

Earned Degree(s):

-   Earned Doctorate -OR-
-   Two Master's degrees: an earned Master's degree from an
    ALA-accredited library/information sciences program plus a second
    Master's degree.
-   Five years of experience in an academic setting with expertise in
    informatics, cyberinfrastructure, project management, and
    computational and data science issues in science and engineering
    disciplines.  

Preferred:

-   Earned Doctorate or Master's degree in STEM (science, technology,
    engineering, mathematics) or quantitative social sciences.
-   Demonstrated expertise using standard scientific software such as
    database management systems, geographic information systems, and
    scientific, statistical and web programming languages.
-   Demonstrated experience and interest in program management,
    leadership, and supervision.
-   Experience in operational and strategic planning.
-   Strong organizational, analytical, persuasion/negotiation,
    decision-making, and problem-solving skills.
-   Demonstrated knowledge of issues and technical challenges and
    solutions related to the life cycle of research data.
-   Demonstrated understanding of long-term preservation issues,
    concepts, and practices.
-   Demonstrated experience in grant writing and grant management.
-   Demonstrated ability to work in collaborative, multi-disciplinary
    teams that support research data services.
-   Experience planning and facilitating informatics training and
    teaching graduate courses in information sciences.
-   Evidence of research and scholarly publication in information
    sciences.
-   Excellent oral, written, and interpersonal communication skills.
    Ability to work with culturally diverse populations.

 
