+++
nid = "3385"
jid = "00204"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-03-15 10:37"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3385"
title = "Research Support Coordinator"
employer = "University of North Carolina at Greensboro"
employerurl = "http://www.uncg.edu/"
postdate = "2013-03-04"
archivedate = "2013-04-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of North Carolina at Greensboro University Libraries is
actively expanding its support for faculty research campus-wide. We seek
a dynamic individual to serve as Research Support Coordinator to
organize, plan, and coordinate the Libraries' interdepartmental
initiatives to support faculty research in a collaborative environment.
The position will coordinate provision of the following services in
support of faculty research: digital humanities tools, web site design,
user interface design, database development, digitization services, and
content and application hosting and development. This is a twelve-month
tenure-track faculty position reporting to the Head of the Libraries'
Electronic Resources and Information Technology Department (ERIT), who
is also an Assistant Dean of University of University Libraries.
Demonstrated professional achievement, service, and scholarly/creative
activity are required for reappointment and tenure.

Responsibilities:

-   Works closely with the UNCG Office of Research and Economic
    Development, UNCG Information and Technology Services, faculty
    research committees, and other campus stakeholders to ensure
    efficient and effective support for researchers.
-   Assists faculty with technological elements of grant applications.
-   Operates the Libraries' Usability Lab.
-   Works closely with library subject liaisons to make sure they are
    kept informed and that they can assist in communication research
    support opportunities and options to faculty.
-   Contributes to and is active in state, regional and national
    meetings, conferences, and workshops, reviews professional
    literature and networks with professional colleagues outside of the
    University to stay informed about developments and trends in
    research support.
  
-   Masters' degree in Library/Information Science from an
    ALA-accredited program;
-   Excellent oral and written communication skills;
-   Knowledge of significant trends and issues in research, research
    support, and usability testing;
-   Demonstrated ability to work in a collaborative environment that
    encourages personnel to work across departments to support the goals
    and initiatives and priorities of the Libraries;
-   Strong analytical and decision making skills;
-   Experience with project management;
-   Basic understanding of a broad range of information technologies,
    including programming, hardware, digital humanities tools, web site
    design, user interface design, database development, digitization
    services, and content and application hosting and development;
-   Familiarity with the principles of usability testing;
-   Ability to work in a collaborative, team-based environment.
