+++
nid = "3487"
jid = "00241"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-12-13 12:59"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3487"
title = "Research Data Services Manager"
employer = "University of Michigan Library"
employerurl = "http://www.lib.umich.edu"
postdate = "2013-12-13"
archivedate = "2014-01-31"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Michigan Library in Ann Arbor is one of the largest
university library systems in the United States, holding more than 8.5
million volumes. Each year, the University Library with locations across
the Ann Arbor campus, adds the equivalent of 2.5 miles of new material
to one of the finest and most comprehensive collections of any academic
library in the world. Our seminal role in digitization enabled the
creation of HathiTrust, a coalition of over 80 libraries with a growing
digital collection that currently exceeds 11 million volumes.

The mission of the University Library is to support, enhance, and
collaborate in the instructional, research, and service activities of
the faculty, students, and staff, and contribute to the common good by
collecting, organizing, preserving, communicating, and sharing the
record of human knowledge. This mission is accomplished through the
provision of the various collections and programs available to patrons
of the library system.

The Research Data Services Manager will help build and enhance Research
Data Services (RDS), which are responsible for strategic planning,
coordination and deployment of research data services directed at
facilitating the research lifecycle. This includes creating and
implementing data management assistance for the campus, outreach to
faculty in collaboration with subject specialists, training, and
assessment of RDS programs and services. The Research Data Manager will
provide leadership in the selection, creation and maintenance of the
library data management solution, and participate in library-wide
strategy and planning for data services and policies.

Responsibilities*
------------------

The Research Data Services Manager develops and promotes 4 key areas: 1)
Education, Awareness and Community Building, 2) Infrastructure, 3)
Policy and Strategy, and 4) Consultation and Services. Reporting to the
Director of Research Data Services, the Research Data Manager will be
responsible for planning, organizing, and coordinating the University
Library's initiatives to support comprehensive research data
management, sharing and preservation for the U-M Campus.
The Research Data Manager will be responsible for building research data
management and curation services in support of University of Michigan
researchers' needs to manage, preserve, share, and provide access to
their data, regardless of format or type.

Responsibilities:
Research Data Services is responsible for strategically identifying the
network of services in the library around research data. The Data
Management Librarian position is responsible for building research data
managment and curation services in support of University of Michigan
researchers' needs to manage, preserve, and provide access to their
research data.

Consultation & Services

-  Provision of Data Management Plan support services, in collaboration
with the Library's Subject Liaison program; provide leadership and
support for subject librarians with research data management
responsibilities.

-  Consult and collaborate on a variety of research data issues
including workflows, data curation mechanisms, and metadata support.

-  Partner with faculty and librarians to document and assess workflows
and determine best practices for data curation. Works closely with
library subject liaisons to make sure they are kept informed and that
they can assist in communicating research and data management support
opportunities and options to faculty

-  Identify staffing, operational and resource needs.

Education, Awareness, and Community Building

-  Plan, train, coordinate data education for diverse constituent,
including librarians, students, researchers, and staff.

-  Create programs and workshops to target different populations,
disciplines and knowledge levels.

-  Collaborate with subject librarians for subject-specific training and
data literacy efforts.

-  Establish relationships with key campus stakeholders including
Advanced Research Computing, ICPSR, U-M Office of Research, Information
Technology Services.

Infrastructure

-  Collaborate and provide leadership for Library Information
Technology, the Digital Preservation Office, Collections, Publishing and
campus partners to design, develop, and maintain the infrastructure and
procedures needed to support research data management services.

Policy and Strategy

-  Coordinate systematic assessment of RDS.

-  Understand issues surrounding data governance; maintain communication
with campus stakeholders about data policy and strategies, and make
recommendations and consult.
  
Required Qualifications*


-  ALA-accredited Master's degree or an equivalent combination of a
relevant advanced degree and experience.

-  Knowledge of technologies for data management and curation, as well
as an understanding of preservation principles and practices.

-  Ability to work independently and effectively with others as a team
within a complex and fluid organizational environment.

-  Possesses excellent written and oral communication skills; ability to
present and share ideas clearly and effectively.

-  Ability to build consensus and promote productive cooperation and
teamwork.

-  Demonstrated commitment to customer service.

-  Ability to effectively work with a diverse group of faculty, staff,
and students in a multicultural and collaborative environment

Desired Qualifications*


-  Managerial and leadership experience; possess skills to effectively
manage, coach, and motivate staff; strong commitment to fostering the
development of others.

-  Experience in operational and strategic planning of library resources
and services.

-  Possess database design experience

-  Knowledge of information technologies, standards and best practices
prevalent in libraries

-  Experience in identifying researcher information needs and in
creating effective services to meet those needs

-  Demonstrated project management skills
