+++
nid = "3374"
jid = "00199"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-02-08 13:11"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3374"
title = "GIS/Web Application Specialist"
employer = "Bucknell University"
employerurl = "http://www.bucknell.edu/"
postdate = "2013-01-31"
archivedate = "2013-03-08"
draft = "false"
+++
The GIS/Web Application Specialist will work with faculty, ITEC team
members and other
Library & IT staff to develop, integrate, and implement web-based
applications that will
advance the University's academic mission and promote Bucknell's
reputation as a leader in
GIS/Digital Scholarship initiatives. This position is a member of
Bucknell's instructional
technology team (ITEC) and reports to the Assistant Director for
Instructional Technology
and works closely with the GIS Specialist but will also partner on an
occasional basis with
web developers from the Library & IT Enterprise Systems team.

The successful candidate for the GIS/ Web Application Specialist role
will bring a unique set
of skills and interests to the job, including:

-   Strong background in ArcGIS desktop including data/project
    development, visualization and spatial analysis
-   Experience and proficiency in working with datasets and multi-media
    objects in a wide range of formats (spreadsheets, text, video,
    images, etc.)
-   Creativity and talent for telling stories with maps and turning data
    into meaningful visualizations
-   Strong aesthetic/design sense along with the deep technical skills
    required to build out and support a broad range of web applications
-   Enthusiasm for digging into a diversity of projects and
    technologies, and for learning new tools, programming languages and
    application development skills.
-   Interest in creative problem-solving, the application of emerging
    technology, and providing highly-responsive, high-quality service
-   Intellectual curiosity and a commitment to custom-fitting web
    solutions to meet the very specific, nuanced requirements of a wide
    array of faculty partners & digital scholarship projects
-   Interest in working with a small, collaborative team on meaningful
    projects
-   Commitment to learning and adhering to programming/web development
    standards adopted by the Library & IT Enterprise Systems team, e.g.,
    standards for testing functionality to meet client specifications;
    developing reports and documentation (technical and end user);
    observing protocols on code review, reusability and versioning;
    implementing best practices for usability and user testing.
-   GIS/ Web Application Specialist combines strong GIS and web
    development skills with aesthetic design skills and the ability to
    turn complex data into meaningful visualizations.
-   He/She partners with faculty and ITEC staff to create a model for
    how web-based GIS/Digital Scholarship projects are produced at
    Bucknell. The mission of the GIS/Web Application Specialist is to
    create customized, interactive and highly-innovative GIS/digital
    scholarship applications that can be used in the classroom and to
    showcase faculty/student research to a broader, public audience.
  
Essential:

-   Bachelor's degree required.
-   Extensive GIS project experience.
-   One to three years (or more) of experience in web application
    development & support in an academic or professional setting.
-   Excellent communication skills (written and verbal), including the
    ability to convey technical concepts to non-technical partners.
-   Evidence of being a collaborative team player and having the ability
    to establish and maintain healthy working relationships with diverse
    colleagues.
-   Ability to manage multiple projects effectively, often working under
    tight deadlines including taking a leadership role in project
    management.
-   Self-starter attitude with demonstrated ability to fulfill a variety
    of functions in a collaborative work environment with minimal direct
    supervision.
-   Demonstrated experience with one or more of the preferred
    qualifications noted below, such as ArcGIS Server, scripting
    languages such as JavaScript, or XML, AJAX, etc.

Preferred:

-   Experience using ArcGIS Server to create map services and manage
    spatial data in an
    RDBMS.
-   Experience using an RDBMS (such as SQL Server) and a content
    management system.
-   Experience with open source or commercial geospatial toolkits like
    OpenLayers, GeoServer, PostGIS, and GoogleMaps.
-   Experience with new media solutions such as Omeka, Neatline, Drupal
    and WordPress.
-   Experience with JavaScript and other core web technologies
    (HTML/CSS/JS).
-   Experience with XML, AJAX, JSP, and PHP.
-   Experience with developing mobile applications.
