+++
nid = "3484"
jid = "00238"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-12-12 14:23"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3484"
title = "CLIR Social Sciences Data Curation Fellow"
employer = "Penn State University Libraries"
employerurl = "http://www.libraries.psu.edu/"
postdate = "2013-12-12"
archivedate = "2014-01-31"
draft = "false"
+++
he Pennsylvania State University Libraries seek a Social Sciences Data
Curation Fellow to collaborate with librarians, technologists, and
researchers, primarily in the social sciences, on building out a program
of services for the lifecycle management of social science research
data. The fellow's work will dovetail with an investigation, launched
in summer 2013 by the University's Information Technology Services
(ITS), into curation needs for restricted data. Penn State has
experience handling restricted data, as evidenced by the Clinical
Science and Translational Institute, which works with primary data that
carry high-risk identity disclosure issues, yet fall under the NIH data
sharing mandate. The Libraries also has a significant university records
management program, and in spring 2014 it will house a new Census
Research Data Center. Working with ITS, relevant liaison librarians, and
research institutes in the social sciences, the fellow will contribute
to the overall stewardship of social science research data at Penn
State, including consideration of curation issues for public data sets
arising from restricted data.

The fellow's responsibilities will focus on three fundamental,
interconnected areas: 1) investigation of current research data
practices to assess curation needs; 2) collection planning, based on
assessment, for local research data sets, exploring approaches to
ensuring data quality and optimizing for access, use, and reuse of data;
and 3) pilot project investigations of curation processes to inform
operationalizing a data curation service. By concentrating on these
three areas, the fellow will contribute to our understanding of the
costs of implementing data curation services for the social sciences at
Penn State. Also central to these efforts will be Penn State's
repository service, ScholarSphere, developed in 2012 as a partnership of
the Libraries and ITS. As a tool for supporting researchers in data
management planning, ScholarSphere is poised for further development as
a data repository, especially for data that otherwise have no
institutional, organizational, or domain-specific base: it offers
state-of-the-art preservation technology, flexible access and permission
levels, and robust file versioning capability. The fellow's
contributions will test and help expand ScholarSphere to meet the
curation needs of research data, initially in the social sciences and
potentially extending to data from other disciplines, depending on
outcomes from the sets of activities described.

This is a two-year, fixed-term appointment at the rank of assistant
librarian. The Data Curation Services postdoctoral fellow will be based
in the Libraries and expected to work in collaboration with a range of
departments, both within and beyond the Libraries.

**Responsibilities**

-   In collaboration with staff from ITS, conduct data interviews with
    social scientists to assess current research lifecycle practices,
    document types of research data available, and evaluate needs
    surrounding long-term management of restricted data;
-   Research various trends and practices at universities for curation
    of restricted social science research data, with particular
    attention to the role of institutional repositories;
-   Lead one to two small pilot projects to support operationalizing a
    data curation service;
-   Participate in consultations, as needed, with social scientists on
    data management planning;
-   Contribute to design and development of resources, including
    research guides and workshops, on research data lifecycle practices
    for faculty, students, and staff;
-   Present on above efforts at national conferences and other relevant
    venues.
  
**Required Qualifications**

-   Ph.D. in the social sciences; examples include anthropology,
    economics, political science, psychology, or sociology; or in
    informatics;
-   Ability to organize and develop information resources for workshops
    and other types of sessions, including consultations;
-   Experience working with large data sets using common analytic tools
    and/or statistical software packages.
-   Familiarity with institutional repositories and data repositories
    (in terms of either retrieval of data/content, or deposit of
    data/content, or both);
-   Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, combined with a
    facility for working productively with a diverse range of faculty,
    students, and academic professional staff.

**Preferred Qualifications**

-   Experience collecting or managing sensitive data for research
    purposes;
-   Experience working on cross-disciplinary, distributed, collaborative
    projects.
