+++
nid = "3440"
jid = "00215"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-07-18 10:35"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3440"
title = "Research Officer"
employer = "Gesis – Leibniz Institute for the Social Sciences"
employerurl = "http://www.gesis.org/"
postdate = "2013-07-18"
archivedate = "2013-07-31"
draft = "false"
+++
In close collaboration with two other training officers you will develop
and deliver training in Digital Preservation and Research Data
Management. You will help promote the Archive and Data Management
Training Center to the archiving and research communities through our
website, social networking and blog.

Your responsibilities include designing teaching methods and resources
to enhance our existing training program with innovative teaching
methods and ways to support teaching. This includes online and
interactive learning environments and media.

Additionally, you will contribute to the development, support, and
maintenance of our website and take part in shaping our strategic plan
for marketing and promoting the Training Center. Part of the job relates
to producing reviews of existing policies and training material in
Digital Preservation and Research Data Management. Opportunity is
provided to develop specialization in aspects of Digital Preservation
and Research Data Management.
  
The ideal candidate will have a degree in the social sciences,
humanities or library and information science and preferably have some
experience with teaching. Some awareness of Research Data Management or
Digital Preservation in the social sciences is desirable. The person
appointed to this position will have written and spoken proficiency in
both English and German.

GESIS guarantees that guidelines regarding employment laws for the
disabled and handicapped as well as laws and regulations governing
part-time employment will be observed. GESIS is an equal opportunity
employer and is certified by the European work & family audit.

In case of questions, please contact **Dr. Alexia Katsanidou*
-  by phone:
**+49(0) 221-47694-490*
-  or by **email**.
