+++
nid = "3442"
jid = "00217"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-07-18 10:43"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3442"
title = "Academic Technology Specialist (Quantitative Specialist)"
employer = "New York University Libraries"
employerurl = "http://library.nyu.edu/"
postdate = "2013-07-18"
archivedate = "2013-08-31"
draft = "false"
+++
New York University's (NYU) Data Services, a joint ITS and Library
facility, is seeking a full-time Academic Technology Specialist to
provide quantitative research computing and data support to faculty,
students, and staff at NYU. The incumbent will be working in a vibrant
and collaborative environment on a team that supports all phases of the
data lifecycle in research, teaching and learning including collection,
analysis and preservation.

**** ****

Responsibilities

-    Provide statistical programming and data analysis support to
    academic researchers. 
-   Develop and deliver training sessions on research software packages
    and tools. 
-   Keep up-to-date on the technical and methodological advances in the
    computational sciences.
-   Supervise a diverse team of graduate student consultants.
-   Perform various administrative duties associated with managing an
    academic facility.

****
****
  
Required Education:

 Bachelor's degree in Statistics, Sociology, Economics, Psychology,
Mathematics, Political Science or related quantitative-focused field.

 

Preferred Education:

 Master's degree (or higher) in Statistics, Sociology, Economics,
Psychology, Mathematics, Political Science or related
quantitative-focused field.

 

Required Experience:

-   3 years related experience, or equivalent.
-   1-3 years conducting quantitative academic research with at least
    one of the following statistical software packages: Stata, R,
    MATLAB, SAS and SPSS. 
-   Proficiency with commonly used statistical and data-oriented
    methods, including: data cleaning, t-tests, ANOVA, linear regression
    and generalized linear models. 
-   Excellent public service, communication, organizational and
    interpersonal skills.

Preferred Experience:

-    Experience teaching quantitative software packages and/or research
    methods.
-   Familiarity with a variety of statistical methods, such as: factor
    analysis, time series analysis, panel data analysis, multi-level
    modeling, structural equation modeling and classification methods.
-   Knowledge of computer science concepts including data structures and
    algorithms; experience programming with a high-level language like
    Python, Julia or C++.
-    Basic understanding of geographic information systems (GIS),
    qualitative data analysis and survey research methods.
-   Experience submitting batch jobs on high performance computing
    systems a plus.



Note: Applicants must be eligible to work in the United States without
requiring sponsorship.
