+++
nid = "3449"
jid = "00220"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-08-08 10:32"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3449"
title = "Data and Research Manager"
employer = "Duke University's Social Science Research Institute"
employerurl = "http://www.ssri.duke.edu/"
postdate = "2013-08-08"
archivedate = "2013-09-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The Data and Research Manager will report jointly to the Director of
SSRI and the IEHD Associate Director and will be responsible for
managing and maintaining a repository of social science data that is
accessed by social science researchers within and outside the
university; identifying and negotiating requirements for bringing
datasets into the repository; and working with researchers to facilitate
appropriate data access. Working within a collaborative team
environment, s/he will be responsible for implementing data solutions
and for determining staffing requirements as data repository demands
grow over time.

** **

**Work Performed            **

-   Provide leadership and expertise for defining data management
    project requirements, considerations, and effective implementation
    options; develop and maintain procedures for data storage,
    documentation, and security; develop data matching protocols; ensure
    appropriate storage of and access to sensitive data; insure
    appropriate computational resources are available to analyze large
    and confidential data; and assist in identifying and acquiring new
    datasets. 
-   Work with researchers to determine data storage and analytic
    capacity needed to house their data in the repository.
-   Work with researchers who wish to access data in the repository,
    such as: assisting researchers with developing applications for
    access; verifying the feasibility of their requests; and tracking
    the status of researchers' applications, including required
    approvals, compliance with data-use agreements, compliance with data
    security requirements, and IRB approval.
-   Conduct and oversee data management tasks including data
    documentation, cleaning, matching, and de-identifying sensitive
    data.
-   Create a strategic plan for the data repository, particularly as it
    relates to large and confidential social science data sets;
    identify, track, and report performance measures; develop annual
    budgets.
-   Take responsibility for keeping informed of advances in data
    storage, documentation, and protection as well as the computational
    requirements for analyzing such data; ensure the use of best
    practices in data management.
-   Supervise, participate in hiring, and train staff as assigned.
-   Collaborate with researchers and data managers at Duke and other
    institutions, such as UNC's Odum Center, RENCI, and the University
    of Michigan's ICPSR, to advance data repository methods and
    capacity.
-   Manage internal and external customer expectations.
-   Perform related work or other duties as assigned.
  
Education/Training: Bachelor's degree in a related field. Graduate
degree in applied social-science research or a related field preferred.
High Level Skills: SAS, STATA, R, SQL; Useful: SPSS, C, VB.

Experience: Minimum of four years directly related data management
experience to include at least two years of administrative, supervisory,
or project management experience. Experience with large datasets,
sensitive data, and supervisory experience are highly valued.

OR AN EQUIVALENT COMPBINATION OF RELEVANT EDUCATION AND/OR EXPERIENCE
