+++
nid = "3610"
jid = "00247"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-02-05 14:42"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3610"
title = "Business and Economics Librarian"
employer = "University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill "
employerurl = "http://library.unc.edu/"
postdate = "2014-02-05"
archivedate = "2014-03-15"
draft = "false"
+++
** **

The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill University Library seeks
a creative, collaborative, and service-oriented individual to join the
Davis Library Research and Instructional Services Department (R&IS) as
the subject librarian for the disciplines of Business and Economics.

The Business and Economics Librarian will have familiarity with a broad
range of business/economic resources, will possess experience in the
teaching and use of these resources, will be well versed in the use of
Web 2.0 technologies for outreach, will understand and practice
"embedded" librarian techniques and will be sufficiently technical to
provide support for the discovery and use of datasets.

The librarian in this position will build strong partnerships and deepen
engagement with the faculty, will assist and consult with faculty and
students in developing research capabilities (e.g., data, business
intelligence, and appropriate software and tools), and will provide
support for course development.  The librarian will lead the Libraries'
engagement and collection building in the designated subject areas.

The Business and Economics Librarian will serve as the liaison to UNC's
Kenan-Flagler Business School and the Department of Economics in the
College of Arts and Sciences; provide business and economics research
consultations to faculty, staff, students, and community members;
develop collections in all formats for the research and teaching needs
of constituents in the designated subject areas; and increase awareness,
within the assigned areas, of scholarly communication, copyright, and
authors' rights issues in collaboration with Scholarly Communications
Officer.  The librarian in this position will work closely with faculty,
students and other scholars (across all disciplines) to provide
proactive research support and innovative instruction; build
partnerships, using both innovative and traditional methods, and create
shared practices that connect the Libraries' learning environment and
research knowledge with constituent needs; and broaden access to
collections through digital project initiatives and actively acquire and
promote both licensed and freely available digital resources of value to
researchers.

Librarians in the Davis Library Research and Instructional Services
Department possess a strong commitment to applying customer service
techniques and practices in delivering instruction and reference
services and should be prepared to participate in scholarly research and
professional activities. The Business and Economics Librarian will
actively develop regional, national and international partnerships and
collaborations to advance the strategic directions of the Libraries.
  
**Required**: ALA-accredited master's degree in library or information
science.  Demonstrated experience in working effectively with business
or economics faculty and students to meet their research and information
needs.  Familiarity with a broad range of business and economic
resources.  Experience delivering instruction and research support
services for business and economics.  Experience with collection
development in business and economics, in all the formats required by
those disciplines.  Experience using and finding data from both
commercial and non-commercial sources.  Public service experience in an
academic library or comparable setting.  Demonstrated ability to
successfully work in a team environment.  Excellent problem-solving,
analytical, organizational, oral/written communication and interpersonal
skills.

**Preferred**: An undergraduate or graduate degree in business or
economics.  Experience with emerging technologies and their application
in libraries and higher education.  Evidence of the ability to
participate in professional organizations and engage in research and
publish as required for promotion.
