+++
nid = "3699"
jid = "00260"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-05-02 11:51"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3699"
title = "Government Information and Statistics Librarian (Librarian I or II)"
employer = "University of Toronto Libraries"
employerurl = "http://onesearch.library.utoronto.ca/"
postdate = "2014-05-02"
archivedate = "2014-05-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Toronto Libraries is seeking a knowledgeable and
technologically adept professional to support the research, teaching and
learning of faculty, students and staff at the university and beyond,
with government information and statistics. The position oversees the
library's government documents collection in all formats and supports
users in its use and that of allied collections. The librarian will also
provide user support with published statistics, statistical software and
other tools supporting data-intensive research.

This position will involve outreach and promotion to faculty and
students in support of government information, statistics and data
sources. The successful candidate will play a leadership and advocacy
role at the university and nationally during this time of transition in
the creation, dissemination and preservation of government information.
The position will report to the Head of Reference and Research Services,
Robarts Library.

One of the world's leading research universities, the University of
Toronto provides outstanding opportunities to work and grow in a unique
intellectual community. Librarians at the University of Toronto can
expect their career and activities to evolve in response to the needs of
the university and the library. The libraries are committed to
collegiality, professional development, innovation and leadership.
  
An ALA accredited MLIS or equivalent with a strong academic background.
Knowledge of government structure, both current and historical, and
demonstrated current knowledge of government publishing. High degree of
technological literacy; strong leadership qualities; flexible, creative,
proactive approach to service; ability to work under pressure in a
challenging and rapidly changing environment; ability to work
effectively in both a team-based and self-directed environment;
excellent interpersonal, organizational and communication skills.

Preferred Qualifications:

-   Experience with government information in an academic environment.
-   Knowledge of CODOC classification system
-   Experience coordinating projects with many stakeholders
-   Experience working with datasets and the ability to effectively
    communicate with faculty, students and staff about textual,
    numerical and spatial data resources
-   Experience using quantitative and qualitative research tools
-   Experience using coding tools such as Javascript or Python
-   Experience with library instruction
