+++
nid = "6333"
jid = "00290"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-12-16 14:22"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6333"
title = "Social Sciences Librarian"
employer = "Florida State University"
employerurl = "http://fsu.edu/"
postdate = "2014-12-15"
archivedate = "2014-12-16"
draft = "false"
+++
Florida State University Libraries seeks a collaborative, innovative,
and service-oriented Social Sciences Librarian to work in a dynamic
academic environment with other library liaisons to develop and provide
consultative, instructional, and outreach services to faculty and
students in the social sciences. The Social Sciences Librarian will also
evaluate, select, and review information resources to support curricula
and research and support faculty scholarship and publication.  The
position provides leadership in the use of government information in all
formats.  This position is based in the Scholars Commons, a department
that works closely with faculty and graduate students and is part of the
Libraries' liaison program.

Responsibilties

-   Serve as a liaison to the Political Science and Public
    Administration Departments and to the programs in International
    Affairs and Area Studies, providing specialized consultations,
    instruction, and outreach in liaison areas.
-   Create research guides, Web pages, or other materials to promote
    access to information resources, government publications, and data
    sources.
-   Evaluate, select, and review resources that support and enhance
    current curricula and research needs in consultation with faculty.
-   Develop, manage, and revise collection development policies and
    approval plan profiles for assigned subjects.
-   Actively support and participate in the Libraries scholarly
    communication activities. 
-   Work collaboratively with the Data Research Librarian to identify
    data resources and to promote digital scholarship in the social
    sciences.
-   Interpret and ensure compliance with legal requirements of
    depository libraries; act as the libraries' depository contact
    person; maintain required records and prepare reports.
-   Provide primary reference service and user assistance for government
    information and work with other liaisons to incorporate relevant
    resources into research guides and instructional sessions.
-   Participate in general in-person and virtual reference and
    instructional services.
-   Serve on Library and University committees.
-   Contribute to state, regional, and national professional
    organizations and participate in research, publication, and other
    professional and scholarly activities.
-   This position will require some weekend and evening hours
  
Required

-   Master's degree or Ph.D. in library and information science from a
    program accredited by the American Library Association or other
    relevant master's degree.
-   A degree in a related discipline or 2 years of related professional
    experience in an academic or research library.
-   Expertise in assigned subjects sufficient to assess curricular and
    research needs, select appropriate materials, and build library
    services to meet those needs.
-   Demonstrated subject knowledge and experience in social sciences,
    including understanding of issues related to social sciences
    research, scholarly publishing, and data research.
-   Experience working with data sets and knowledge of research
    practices relating to data.
-   Familiarity with federal requirements for open access and open data
    and of national and international trends in scholarly communication
    and data management.
-   Experience using local, federal, and national government information
    and publications.
-   Strong grasp of current issues, trends, and technologies impacting
    higher education and academic libraries.
-   Ability to plan, coordinate, and implement effective programs,
    complex projects, and services.
-   Creative and analytical thinking skills and good problem solving
    ability.
-   Excellent oral and written communication skills
-   Demonstrated ability to work independently and to collaborate
    effectively with staff at all levels and with people of diverse
    backgrounds.
-   Flexibility in adapting to changing organizational priorities and
    technological environments.
-   Ability to meet the library's requirement for scholarship, service,
    and leadership.

Preferred

-   An advanced degree in the social sciences.
-   Education or experience working with government documents.
-   Experience building and sustaining library collections in all
    formats
