+++
nid = "3695"
jid = "00256"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-05-02 11:33"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3695"
title = "Programmer"
employer = "CIESIN, Columbia University"
employerurl = "http://www.ciesin.org/"
postdate = "2014-05-02"
archivedate = "2014-05-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The Center for International Earth Science Information Network (CIESIN),
a Research Unit of Columbia University located on the Lamont Campus in
Palisades, NY is seeking a full-time programmer to participate in the
development of web and mobile applications for a range of exciting and
globally important projects. CIESIN is an organization that seeks to
bridge social and natural science research with immediately relevant
applied policy work, and specializes in on-line data and information
management. CIESIN engages with a wide range of partners from NASA to
NSF, from Google Foundation to the Gates Foundation, from World Bank to
the United Nations (UN) and from Universities in Kenya to the Office of
the Prime Minister of Haiti.

This programmer position seeks a candidate to work with cutting edge
technology in a dynamic environment, collaborating with world class
scientists and researchers to develop innovative web and mobile
applications, including data visualization and mapping tools which help
make relevant data easily accessible for the pressing issues addressed
at CIESIN. The candidate will work with teams developing socioeconomic
and multi-disciplinary data, bearing on issues such as global natural
hazard risks, agriculture/land use, soils, food production, poverty,
population, climate and more. The user community includes a range of
stakeholders from Government ministers and presidential offices to
researchers, local farmers, and non-governmental aid agencies.

Main responsibilities include but are not limited to the following:

-   Participate in the design, development, and maintenance of web and
    mobile applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, and other
    similar technologies,
-   Assist in developing requirements and specifications for web and
    mobile applications in collaboration with scientists, researchers,
    GIS analysts, and system developers;
-   Attend technical meetings, suggest technical solutions, and present
    prototypes.


 See the job posting on the Columbia University's website below
for full description of the responsibilities and qualifications.

  
Minimum qualifications required: Bachelor's degree in Computer Science
or a related field (or equivalent), and minimum of three to five (3 to
5) years of programming and applications development experience.
Demonstrated programming experience in JavaScript or Java-based web
development frameworks. The ideal candidate will also have experience in
developing data visualization and/or mapping tools.

Preffered qualifications:

-   Experience with applications development in mobile platform
-   Experience working with geospatial data technologies and standards
    such as WMS, WFS, WCS, and WPS
-   Proficiency in writing clean and standards compliant
    HTML5/CSS3/JavaScript
-   Experience with at least two of the following technologies is a
    plus: Spring/Struts, jQuery/Prototype/Dojo, ArcGIS/Python,
    Geoserver/OpenLayers, Google Maps API, Drupal/PHP, SQL,
    Oracle/MySQL/Postgres, UNIX, Android/iOS. 
