+++
nid = "3796"
jid = "00271"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-07-31 11:02"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3796"
title = "Project Director, National Archive of Criminal Justice Data"
employer = "Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR) of the Institute for Social Research at the University of Michigan"
employerurl = "http://www.icpsr.umich.edu/"
postdate = "2014-07-30"
archivedate = "2014-07-31"
draft = "false"
+++
ICPSR is searching for a Research Scientist to direct the National
Archive of Criminal Justice Data (<http://www.icpsr.umich.edu/nacjd>) --
a public service activity that disseminates data pertinent to crime and
the criminal justice system. Responsibilities for this multiple-role
position include directing an extensive data processing operation,
developing strategies to make the data accessible and easy to use, and
supporting researchers and data producers to facilitate data archiving
and re-use. The primary appointment will be as a Research Scientist at
ICPSR, part of the Institute for Social Research at the University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor. A faculty appointment at the University of Michigan
Ann Arbor or Dearborn campus is also possible.
  
Advanced degree (PhD or accredited MA/MS) in a field of study relevant
to the development, management, archiving and analysis of
interdisciplinary and social science data. Desired is a concentration in
Information Sciences, a Certificate (e.g., Digital Curation Education
Program) or other evidence of advanced education and training in the
areas of digital information science. Minimum of five years professional
experience in data-related activities with at least two years of
experience in the management of research projects in an appropriate
area. Experience writing grant proposals is required along with
experience in developing, planning, and managing project budgets.
Experience providing digital stewardship for statistical data in a
research-intensive, multi-disciplinary and academic environment.
Knowledge of procedures for ensuring the privacy and protection of
research subjects. Knowledge of Department of Justice rules and
regulations regarding confidentiality pertaining to human subjects
information is desirable. Familiarity with statistical software for the
analysis of data (e.g. SAS, Stata, SPSS, R). Demonstrated scholarly
productivity is desirable, along with the proven ability to work both
independently and collaboratively. Excellent communication skills, both
oral and written, in the English language.
