+++
nid = "6269"
jid = "00289"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-12-01 12:59"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6269"
title = "Statistical and Methodological Consultant"
employer = "Center for Open Science"
employerurl = "http://centerforopenscience.org/"
postdate = "2014-12-01"
archivedate = "2014-12-01"
draft = "false"
+++
The [Center for Open Science ](http://centerforopenscience.org/)(COS)
develops tools to support the scientific workflow (i.e., [Open Science
Framework](http://openscienceframework.org/)), fosters community
standards and efforts for open practices, and conducts metascience
research - science on scientific practices.  We will hire two
individuals with substantial training in quantitative methods, research
methodology, and reproducible research practices to be a consulting team
to train, support, and foster open, reproducible research practices
across the sciences.  Statistical and Methodological Consultants will
contribute to the COS mission, particularly the community and
metascience efforts, and help facilitate open, reproducible practices
across the scientific community.  Statistical and Methodological
Consultants must have extremely strong quantitative, methodological,
social, and organizational skills.  Depending on training and expertise,
part of one or both of these positions will be devoted to support
activities in the White House's Office of Science and Technology Policy
related to reproducible research practices.  This position is
appropriate for recent or past PhD's with particularly strong
quantitative training in their substantive discipline.  

**Responsibilities**

The Statistical and Methodological Consultants will provide active,
hands-on consultation for reproducible best practices in data analysis
and research design.  This includes short-term visits to universities,
departments, and laboratories; lectures and training at conferences;
virtual consulting and training; and development and maintenance of
education materials and practical guides for distribution.  Consulting
services will include open science, reproducibility practices, data
analysis, and research methodology.  Statistical and Methodological
Consultants will assist in forming and maintaining COS's best practices
for reproducible research, and collaborate with the whole COS team in
making its infrastructure and products accessible, useful, and
applicable to scientists across research disciplines.
  
Substantial training and experience in scientific research, quantitative
methods, and reproducible research practices; Extremely high social and
communication skills; Exceptional organization and attention to detail;
Service-oriented mindset; Diverse experience with technologies for data
collection, analysis, and visualization; Ability to use web
communication and documentation software effectively; Team-oriented;
Very strong work ethic; Self-starter and industrious; Adaptivity to
rapidly changing demands in a high performance workplace; Very strong
writing skills.  Skills in programming (at least R, ideally Python or
Julia), web development, and data analysis are essential.
