+++
nid = "6336"
jid = "00293"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-12-17 10:33"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6336"
title = "Research Support Assistant"
employer = "King's College London"
employerurl = "http://www.kcl.ac.uk/"
postdate = "2014-12-17"
archivedate = "2014-12-17"
draft = "false"
+++
Applications are invited for the post of Research Support Assistant to
join the Research Support and Digital Assets Team in the Collections &
Research Support Division. This is an exciting opportunity to join a
growing team within a Library Service which has an ambitious and long
term vision for research support. This is a fixed- term role, working in
the Research Support & Digital Assets team. The Research Support
Assistant will support research at King's by assisting the team's work
with Research Data Management and Open Access to scholarly
publications.

The post-holder will assist with managing requests for Open Access
funding, respond to enquiries from researchers and administrators around
scholarly publications and research data management, and support the
development and provision of a Research Data Management service. They
will provide advice and guidance to researchers and ensure publications
are correctly licensed and stored.

Reporting to the Research Data Manager and under the supervision of the
Digital Assets Manager, and working closely with officers within the
team, the Research Support Assistant will enter and maintain records of
OA funding requests, data management plans and enquiries, assist with
financial administration, update metadata and full-text within the
universities repository. They will assist with production of regular
reports and updates, and support other team activities to ensure
effective and efficient service delivery.
  
The successful candidate will have excellent communication and
interpersonal skills, a good eye for detail and a methodical approach to
work, as well as a strong commitment, as part of a team, to providing an
excellent service to customers. Previous experience of working in an
academic environment is desirable, but not essential.
