+++
nid = "3738"
jid = "00268"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-05-30 12:59"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3738"
title = "Program Director, Geospatial Research  Support"
employer = "American University"
employerurl = "http://www.american.edu/"
postdate = "2014-05-30"
archivedate = "2014-06-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The Program Director of Geospatial Research Support provides expertise
on the development and application of geospatial analysis processes,
protocols, and solutions for American University faculty and graduate
students in their work with geospatial data and applications, both in
the AU Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Labs and in remote
fieldwork. Supports the research and teaching programs of the American
University using GIS technology and resources. The incumbent has
responsibility for building and curating American University's spatial
data collection, and for the provision of services in support of robust
geospatial research.     
  
Educational Requirements:

ALA-accredited M.L.S., or an equivalent advanced degree in a related
discipline such as geographic information systems, geography,
cartography, or an equivalent combination of education and experience. 

Minimum Requirements:

-   Proficiency with GIS software and spatial data, demonstrated
    experience with design and delivery of GIS-related instruction, and
    expertise in geographic and cartographic principles. 
-   At least 5 years of progressively responsible experience with the
    suite of ESRI GIS products, open source, and online GIS software and
    platforms. 
-   Demonstrated understanding of the use and potential of geospatial
    information for research, teaching, and learning in an academic
    environment. 
-   Sound familiarity with the types, producers, sources and formats of
    geospatial data.
-   Willingness and ability to independently discover and learn new
    geospatially relevant technologies and sources, and their potential
    applications by the AU community in the scholarly research process.
-   Demonstrated experience with managing geospatial data, and with
    creating and growing a GIS service supporting academic research.
    Ability to manage multiple projects and priorities effectively.    


**Other Skills and Abilities Required:**  

-   Demonstrated strong public service ethic, communication and
    collaborative skills.   
-   Ability to work across a broad-based constituency and to communicate
    a positive university image.    
