+++
nid = "3678"
jid = "00253"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-02-28 14:42"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3678"
title = "Research Data Management Expert"
employer = "GESIS - Leibniz Institute for the Social Sciences"
employerurl = "http://www.gesis.org/en/institute/"
postdate = "2014-02-28"
archivedate = "2014-02-28"
draft = "false"
+++
The offered position involves liaising on training activities in
Research Data Management (RDM), Digital Preservation (DP), and Data
Discovery (DD) with partner institutions in the CESSDA AS data
infrastructure with a focus on participating in strategic and
operational planning for CESSDA training activities. You are expected to
have a sound knowledge of RDM activities in the social sciences at all
stages of the research lifecycle. You should also be familiar with the
basic principles of DP. The position includes holding introductory
workshops on RDM and DP. The position requires contributing creating
training materials and teaching in cooperation with other members of the
team. You are responsible for the overarching training concept for more
advanced workshops. You will also be expected to lead cooperations with
data collecting research projects and to provide RDM support on a
consultancy basis. This involves ascertaining existing RDM practice,
designing support strategies and liaising during their implementation.

You are expected to maintain an online support library of RDM resources
with the aim of promoting standards and good practice in RDM and DP, to
provide training in standards and techniques and ad hoc consulting on
preservation and data dissemination. You are required to take active
role in securing funding and participating in cooperative research
projects and to conduct research.
  
Communication skills, including the ability to convey complex
information and concepts to audiences ranging from novice to expert in a
concise and interesting manner are important. Critical is the ability to
relate to the needs of people in a range of roles including researchers,
funders, and librarians, or depository staff. The position also requires
a good awareness and experience in using social media to promote a
service, specifically through twitter and blogging.

You have good problem solving skills and are a team player. In addition,
you are flexible, able to work under pressure, and willing to travel.
Sound command of written and spoken English is a prerequisite. Knowledge
of German is desirable but not essential. GESIS guarantees that
guidelines regarding employment laws for the disabled and handicapped as
well as laws and regulations governing part-time employment will be
observed. GESIS is an equal opportunity employer and is certified by the
European work & family audit.
