+++
nid = "3851"
jid = "00280"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-09-09 12:28"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3851"
title = "Associate Chief Librarian for Science Research and Information"
employer = "The University of Toronto"
employerurl = "http://www.utoronto.ca/"
postdate = "2014-09-08"
archivedate = "2014-09-09"
draft = "false"
+++
Reporting to the Chief Librarian of the University of Toronto Libraries,
the Associate Chief Librarian for Science Research and Information leads
efforts to provide world class collections and services to the science
and health science disciplines at the University.  As a member of the
Chief Librarian's Executive Leadership Council, s/he also plays a key
role in advancing the overall strategic goals of the Libraries.  UTL
seeks an innovative, experienced and knowledgeable library leader to
serve in this key position.

The Associate Chief Librarian for Science Research and Information has
leadership, management, policy, planning and implementation
responsibilities for the public services of the science and health
science libraries in the central libraries system, and responsibilities
for coordination with all UTL libraries in these subject areas. S/he
acts as Director of the Gerstein Science Information Centre, and has
full management responsibilities for the library.  S/he is also
responsible for the operations of the Noranda Earth Sciences Library,
the Engineering & Computer Science Library, the Mathematical Sciences
Library and the Harry R. Abbott Dentistry Library and collaborates with
the respective library heads to ensure excellent collections and
information services.  Additionally, the incumbent manages the UTL
relationship with the Health Science Information Consortium of Toronto
and the partnership with the MaRS Discovery District.  S/he also has a
dotted line responsibility, providing guidance and support to the
Aerospace Resource Centre, the Astronomy & Astrophysics Library, the A.
D. Allen Chemistry Library, the Family & Community Medicine Library and
the Physics Library.
  
**Required:**

1. A graduate degree in library or information science from an
ALA-accredited institution with the capacity to understand the
information and service needs of the science and health science
disciplines, as well as other subject areas. 

2. Ten years of professional library experience, with significant
management experience.

3. Demonstrated leadership abilities, particularly in creating a common
vision and bringing together science libraries and libraries staff to
offer excellent collections and services for the benefit of a broad
research community.  Mentorship ability and an interest in staff
development. Team building skills.

4. Excellent speaking, writing and interpersonal skills.  

5. Demonstrated ability to work collegially and effectively in a diverse
academic environment to advance knowledge creation and dissemination and
to support teaching, learning, and research, especially in the sciences
and health sciences. 

6. Demonstrated deep understanding of research, teaching, learning and
information priorities in the sciences and health science libraries.
 Knowledge of best practices and emerging developments in service
delivery.  Record of effective collaboration involving diverse faculty,
library staff, students and other campus stakeholders. Capacity to
thrive in an environment of change and to nurture that capacity in
others.

7. Expertise with collections and service offerings in science and
health science libraries, and an understanding of how technology will
impact scholarly communications in the near and longer term. Familiarity
with scientific developments in industry, and how those advances will
impact research, teaching and learning in science and health science
related fields. Passionate about expanding access to research findings
through traditional and emerging technologies, and through partnerships
with internal and external stakeholders.

8. Demonstrated understanding of the evolving scholarly communications
environment and open access initiatives.  Awareness of emerging
technologies to support digital research and demonstrated understanding
of the role of libraries in collecting and preserving non-traditional
scholarship for future generations.

9. Responsive and action oriented with a focus on positively impacting
research and teaching at the institution.  Demonstrated planning,
decision making and problem solving skills.  Flexible and able to manage
multiple competing priorities in a timely fashion.

10. Proven ability to cultivate positive partnerships with the science,
health and broader libraries communities.  Evidence of deep engagement
with the larger science and health science library communities and a
commitment to contribute to the vibrancy of those communities. 

 

**Preferred:**

1. An undergraduate degree in the sciences or health sciences and/or an
advanced subject degree in a relevant subject area.

2. Relevant research experience and expertise.  Publication, teaching or
other significant contributions to the profession that demonstrates
substantial subject mastery.

3. Significant experience in relevant professional associations.

4. Successful record of fundraising. 

5. Experience working in a unionized environment.

6. Experience with planning capital projects and library renovations.

7. At least seven years of direct management experience.

 

All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadians and
permanent residents will be given priority. The University of Toronto
Libraries thank all applicants for their interest, however, will only be
contacting those applicants selected for an interview.
