+++
nid = "3843"
jid = "00273"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-08-19 10:28"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3843"
title = "Scientific Data Coordinator"
employer = "British Antarctic Survey (BAS) "
employerurl = "http://www.antarctica.ac.uk/"
postdate = "2014-08-18"
archivedate = "2014-08-19"
draft = "false"
+++
The British Antarctic Survey (BAS), part of the Natural Environment
Research Council (NERC), aims to undertake a world-class programme of
scientific research, and to sustain for the UK an active and influential
regional presence and a leadership role in Antarctic affairs.

You will be based in the Polar Data Centre (PDC) working as part of a
team of data managers who are responsible for the management of data
collected by UK funded scientists in the polar regions. Your main
responsibility will be to ensure that polar data arising from NERC grant
funded projects are effectively managed for the long-term.

First and foremost you will have experience and understanding of the
data management lifecycle and will be committed to the concept of open
data. Previous evidence of managing scientific data would be highly
desirable as would a post-graduate qualification in a science or
information related discipline. You will understand project management
principles and will preferably have used a defined methodology.

You must be an excellent communicator, able to speak with senior
researchers just as easily as you can with technical developers. You
have to able to advise, persuade and cajole in equal measure with the
ultimate aim of allowing the data to be discovered, accessed and reused
by all.

It is essential that you possess sufficient technical skills to
understand the kind of systems needed to underpin the data management
lifecycle. More extensive technical skills would be highly desirable
allowing you develop existing workflows and implement new ones.

You will not work alone and will be supported by colleagues in the PDC
and by the wider BAS Information Services group which includes the
Archives Service, the BAS library and the web team. The ability to work
in a team environment is thus an essential requirement.You can apply for
this job online or you can print off the application forms, fill them
out by hand and mail them
  
Degree or higher in a scientific or data/information discipline.

