+++
nid = "3846"
jid = "00276"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-08-19 11:00"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3846"
title = "Data Curator"
employer = "New York University (NYU)"
employerurl = "http://www.nyu.edu/"
postdate = "2014-08-19"
archivedate = "2014-08-19"
draft = "false"
+++
The Center for Urban Science and Progress (CUSP) at New York University
seeks a Data Curator: an information scientist who will work with
faculty, researchers, and students in applied urban science to acquire
and organize data related to New York City. CUSP is a dynamic research
and academic center that requires a Data Curator to manage data ingest
and access workflows, to catalog data using and maintaining controlled
vocabularies, and to provide reference and data services to faculty,
researchers, and students. The Data Curator will manage the Data
Lifecycle from beginning to end to ensure that CUSP data is indexed,
curated, and stored within the CUSP Data Warehouse for discovery and
access. Strategy must be employed to scale for both data volume and data
access growth.
  
Required Experience:

3-5 years experience in a related field, such as applied science,
metadata schema design and management, taxonomy management, or
equivalent education and experience; relevant experience in research
data management as a researcher, research data manager, research data
repository manager , or in similar roles. Demonstrated experience in
consulting with faculty or researchers regarding technology or metadata
creation; Demonstrated understanding of the research and data lifecycle.
Demonstrated experience in curating and handling large data sets with
particular understanding of requirements for longer term digital
archiving. Understanding of database systems, XML, RDF, scientific
metadata standards, API development, and related technologies; as well
as protocols such as OAI-PMH. Experience with ontologies and metadata
issues related to the discovery of academic or data resources.
Experience constructing and maintaining a controlled vocabulary.

Preferred Experience:

Professional data archive, repository, or warehouse experience.
Professional computer programming experience. Professional data
management experience. Professional experience working within academia. 

Required Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:

Working knowledge of data management, including metadata, data retrieval
and research data use, format migration, preservation; High-level
interpersonal, consultation and reference skills, including evidence of
the ability to collaborate and liaise effectively with a diverse range
of faculty, researchers, and students. Highly developed organizational
and analytical skills with demonstrable ability to work independently as
well as collaboratively, to set priorities, show initiative and balance
the demands of working in a rapidly changing environment. Awareness of
issues related to data curation, data citation, data ethics, metadata,
and data privacy. 

Preferred Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:

Familiarity with current efforts in annotation standards. Familiarity
with video data and/or sensor data. Familiarity with data management
technologies such as XML, SQL, MySQL, unix filesystems. Ability to use
XSLT, Python (or other programming language) and some relevant
programming experience is highly desirable. Metadata editing software.
Familiar with data warehouse architecture and workflows and ability to
systematize workflows. 
