+++
nid = "3770"
jid = "00269"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-07-18 08:05"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3770"
title = "Data Services Librarian"
employer = "George Washington University"
employerurl = "http://www.gwu.edu/"
postdate = "2014-07-18"
archivedate = "2014-07-18"
draft = "false"
+++
Reporting to the Coordinator of Research Services, the Data Services
Librarian will help define and realize the critical components of data
services in a major research university. A key priority for the position
is to develop sustainable data services and data management
infrastructure and processes. This is a newly created position offering
a leadership role in promoting and realizing the library's role as a key
partner for research data support and services at GW.

The successful candidate will work closely with faculty, students, and
librarians in the sciences, social sciences and humanities, providing
individual research consultations, instructional support for librarians
teaching data intensive courses and collection development support for
the acquisition of data.

The George Washington University offers comprehensive programs of
undergraduate and graduate liberal arts study as well as degree programs
in medicine, public health, law, engineering, education, business, and
international affairs. The new Science and Engineering Hall,
Computational Biology Institute and forthcoming genome and engineering
research institutes confirms GW's emphasis on enhancing [STEM]{.caps}
research and support. The Virginia Science and Technology Campus -- with
17 laboratories and institutes -- is poised to be the primary big data
campus in the D.C. Area. With the Division of Information Technology,
the Libraries are key partners in moving data to the forefront of
research support, including data identification, collection, curation
and preservation. With undergraduate, graduates and faculty increasingly
generating or utilizing data, the library seeks exceptional candidates
to assist in developing an enhanced research data environment. The
George Washington University Libraries value and foster flexibility,
creativity and openness to new ideas for all staff. The GW Libraries are
committed to and support development, training and professional service.
The GW Libraries staff participates in meetings of the Association of
Research Libraries, the Washington Research Library Consortium, and the
Northeast Research Libraries Consortium, as well as other leading
library organizations.
  
[ALA]{.caps}-accredited [MLS]{.caps} with a minimum of two years of
library experience or an advanced degree in a data-intensive research
field and 3 years of relevant experience in an academic or research
setting.

Experience in supporting university faculty with research that involves
data services, grant proposal development and data management, or
experience working with research data and researchers.
Familiarity with funding agency requirements for data management plans.
