+++
nid = "3694"
jid = "00255"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-05-02 11:05"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3694"
title = "Research Support and Data Services Librarian"
employer = "Columbia University Libraries"
employerurl = "http://library.columbia.edu/\u200e"
postdate = "2014-05-02"
archivedate = "2014-05-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The Columbia University Libraries invites nominations and applications
for the position of Research Support and Data Services Librarian in the
Watson Library of Business and Economics.

The Research Support and Data Services Librarian will provide research
support and outreach in the areas of business and economics with a
specific focus on assisting faculty and students in acquiring and using
business and economics data. As a member of the research team providing
high-end research and data support in the Watson Library, the incumbent
will assist users in acquiring and finding, manipulating and analyzing
numeric data and assisting in the use of statistical software, both in
Watson and in the Data Service at the Digital Social Science Center
(DSSC).

The Research Support and Data Services Librarian will engage
technologies emerging as critical to research and teaching in business
and economics, including those supporting data-intensive research. The
incumbent will actively acquire data to support the research and
teaching needs of diverse campus constituencies and work with colleagues
from across the Social Science Libraries division and the Columbia
University Libraries to provide coordinated support for using research
data. The incumbent will also participate on Libraries-wide task forces
and working groups and will represent the organization at appropriate
regional and national forums. This position will report to the Head,
Watson Library of Business and Economics.
  
The successful candidate will have:

-   MLS or advanced degree in a social science discipline such as
    business, statistics, economics, etc., or an equivalent combination
    of education and experience
-   Experience providing research support in an academic library setting
-   Demonstrated experience using quantitative research tools such as
    SPSS, Stata, R, etc.
-   Demonstrated ability to work collegially and cooperatively within
    and across organizations
-   Ability to work independently with varied user groups in a complex
    organization and function collaboratively in a rapidly changing team
    environment
-   Strong public service orientation
-   Excellent analytical, organizational, oral and written
    communications and interpersonal skills
-   Demonstrated record of success designing projects and bringing them
    to a conclusion in a timely fashion

Preferred:

-   Additional relevant graduate degree
-   Knowledge of the issues surrounding scholarly communications and
    data management planning. 
-   Demonstrated ability to create and maintain web pages.
