+++
nid = "3847"
jid = "00277"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-08-19 13:23"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3847"
title = "Academic Support Librarian (Research Support Services)"
employer = "The London School of Economics and Political Science Library"
employerurl = "http://www.lse.ac.uk/home.aspx"
postdate = "2014-08-19"
archivedate = "2014-08-19"
draft = "false"
+++
In this post you will be responsible for the day-to-day management of
our repository services. This is an exciting role in a developing area,
with the increasing adoption of funder open access mandates and a
national focus on access to publicly funded research. You will ensure
the repositories continue to grow and develop by implementing and
improving workflows to capture, describe, store and disseminate a range
of research outputs in various formats. You will also provide
consultation and advice to researchers in the area of scholarly
communications including routes to open access, publisher policies and
research dissemination.


You will be part of the Research Support Services team and assist in the
delivery of a range of research support activities. You will also help
promote the services provided by the team and the Library to a range of
LSE user groups via continuous service development, advocacy programmes
and engagement with our users. Contributing to the work of the Academic
Services Group is an essential part of this role, undertaking academic
liaison responsibilities and information literacy training. This post
also includes line management responsibilities.


You will be educated to at least degree level or equivalent with
awareness of emerging trends in scholarly communications and research
support. You should be an excellent communicator with a  proven ability
to relate to a wide range of users, academic colleagues and external
networks. You will be able to work under pressure and on your own
initiative as well as being an effective team member. Experience of
working with institutional or digital repositories would be an
advantage.
  
**Knowledge and Experience**

CILIP-recognised professional qualification in librarianship/information
science or currently working towards completion.
Post qualification experience working in a library or similar customer
service environment, preferably in higher education.
Knowledge of scholarly communications, including traditional and
emerging modes of publishing, routes to open access and copyright.
Experience of working with and developing institutional/digital
repositories or publications management via a CRIS.
