+++
nid = "5090"
jid = "00288"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-11-25 10:39"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/5090"
title = "Knowledge and Data Curation Specialist, Part-time position"
employer = "Cornell University, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences International Program "
employerurl = "http://ip.cals.cornell.edu/"
postdate = "2014-11-24"
archivedate = "2014-11-25"
draft = "false"
+++
[T]{.text}he Cornell Alliance for Science (CAS) is a global agricultural
communications platform in CALS International Program (IP-CALS) that
promotes evidence-based decision making and aims to improve
understanding and acceptance of agricultural technologies in both public
and political sectors.  Supported by a $5.6 million grant from the Bill
& Melinda Gates Foundation, the Cornell Alliance for Science will help
inform decision-makers and consumers through an online information
portal and training programs to help researchers and stakeholders
effectively communicate the potential impacts of agricultural technology
and how such technology works.

Contribute to the strategic planning, execution, and maintenance of
effective communication and knowledge efforts for CAS and lead the
knowledge management efforts.  Gather and disseminate in strategic and
innovative ways information on issues relating to CAS and biotechnology
to a variety of stakeholder groups.  Use science-based information to
empower a cadre of global communicators to contribute to a rational,
science-based debate on biotechnology in Africa, East and South Asia,
the US and Europe by discovering, compiling, editing and advising on the
knowledge base within the project web presence which includes
scientific, institutional, and policy information in addition to
information on research personnel, capabilities, projects, global
inventories of Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and other
international advocacy groups.  Develop and manage new databases and
datasets.  Use a self-guided interest in contemporary web tools that
facilitate communication leading to partnerships and coordinated action
as well as global dissemination of evidence-based information.  Assist
with depolarizing the controversies around biotechnology and build a
global agricultural science consortium so that smallholder farmers have
access to new technologies by leading efforts to develop and maintain a
comprehensive web-based information system that will facilitate growth
and outputs of varied communities of practices.  Provide the project and
global community as a whole with access to comprehensive, historical and
up-to-date knowledge relevant to CAS goals.

[Temporary 6 month term position, part-time 20 hrs/wk.]{.text}
  
**Required:*
-  Bachelor's degree; more than 3 but less than 5 years
experience or equivalent. Experience working knowledge and information
management. Investigative nature with drive to assimilate new
information.  She or he will be highly analytical and will have a drive
and the skills to be investigative.  Proven ability to grasp a broad
range of scientific content and synthesize it for multiple, highly
attuned user groups. Proven ability to multi-task and manage large
amounts of documentation. Skills in computer technology, especially
databases, website development, and graphic design software desirable.
Familiarity with collaborative modern web tools for facilitating
communication and coordination. Proven abilities in technical
writing/editing. Proven ability to contribute to multi-institutional,
international research programs with multiple stakeholders. Skills in
computer technology, especially web authoring and multimedia development
and production. Knowledge of or interest in the international
agricultural research community. International experience and proven
ability to work in developing country circumstances preferred; superior
communications, computing, and organizational skills; knowledge of
foreign languages desirable. Exercise sound and ethical judgment when
acting on behalf of the University. Must be personable, flexible,
possess excellent organizational, written, and oral communication
skills, and take pride in their work. Demonstrated ability to develop
effective working relationships with diverse students, faculty, and
staff. Ability to create an inclusive, high-quality and respectful work
environment both in a team setting and independently to achieve
department and university goals. Willing to travel internationally.

**Preferred:*
-  Degree in information science or a related field.
Familiarity or desire to become familiar with Drupal preferred.
Experience working with databases preferred. Knowledge of Intellectual
property and copyright issues.
