+++
nid = "4964"
jid = "00286"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-11-18 12:06"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/4964"
title = "Research Data Curation Librarian"
employer = "University of Michigan"
employerurl = "https://www.umich.edu/"
postdate = "2014-11-17"
archivedate = "2014-11-18"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Michigan, a leader in undergraduate and graduate
education and one of the world's premier research universities, has
prominent faculty, rigorous academic programs, and a diverse cultural
and social environment. By advancing new modes of scholarly
communication, engaging users in innovative and relevant ways, and
developing collections and services that directly support the teaching,
learning, and research mission of the University, the University of
Michigan Library is leading the re-imagining of the research library in
the digital era. 

The University of Michigan Library has embarked on an aggressive and
exciting initiative to address research data management needs at the
University, and is seeking a forward-thinking and innovative Research
Data Curation Librarian to join the team. Reporting to the Research Data
Services Manager, the Research Data Curation Librarian will advance the
library's mission to create and sustain data services for the campus
that support the mission of the University of Michigan researchers
through our Research Data Services (RDS) unit. 

RDS is responsible for strategic planning, coordination, and deployment
of research data services directed at facilitating the research
lifecycle. This includes creating and implementing data management
assistance for the campus, outreach to faculty in collaboration with
subject specialists, informationists, training, and assessment of RDS
programs and services. RDS operates in 4 key areas: 1) Education,
Awareness and Community Building, 2) Technical Infrastructure, 3) Policy
and Strategy, and 4) Consultation and Services. 

The responsibilities of the Research Data Curation Librarian will fall
in all key areas; the initial focus of this position will be to
contribute to the development of the data repository in collaboration
with colleagues and stakeholders, in the library and across campus.  

**Responsibilities**

While partnering with colleagues at the U-M Office of Research,
Information Technology Services, Advanced Research Computing, as well as
academic programs, institutes, departments, and colleges across campus,
the Research Data Curation Librarian will:

*Work with researchers to curate and archive data*

-   The Librarian will work with researchers to identify, recruit,
    ingest and deposit data in the library's digital repository,
    adhering to local policies and national and international standards
    and best practices. 
-   The incumbent will play a significant role in outreach to the
    research community to deposit data in both the digital repository or
    appropriate subject repository, as well as creating training
    programs, help guides and web resources for Data Education and RDS
    for internal and external audiences. 
-   When necessary the Librarian will consult with researchers on
    metadata standards and data sensitivity characterization.  

*Create, support and sustain technical infrastructure*

-   In collaboration with key partners, will act as the Research Data
    Services point person for the data repository.
-   Investigate integrative infrastructures to connect campus needs to
    the repository.
-   Design and implement workflows, and execute technical processes
    involved in managing the lifecycle of digital datasets including
    data transformation projects. 

*Work with campus stakeholders on larger data collections issues*

-   Serve as a consultant to researchers and librarians on data issues
    and services.
-   Perform data management planning with principle investigators and
    researchers.
-   Assist in the development and delivery of training and instructional
    materials on data curation.
-   Provide guidance and instruction on discovery, acquisition and use
    of research data in the public domain. 

*Engage and participate in all aspects of the RDS and library services
as appropriate*

-   Participate in research data management consultations, data curation
    activities and the development of resources, documentation and
    instructional content about data curation.
-   Participate in selected cross-library working groups to create and
    improve services.
-   Other duties as assigned.
  
**Required Qualifications**

-   ALA-accredited Master's degree or an equivalent combination of a
    relevant advanced degree and experience.
-   Demonstrated knowledge of or direct experience working with or
    managing research data.
-   Knowledge of information technologies, standards and best practices
    prevalent in digital or data curation.
-   Ability to articulate roles in the research data ecosystem.
-   Knowledge of technologies for data management and curation, and
    familiarity with preservation principles and practices.
-   Ability to work independently and effectively with others as a team
    within a complex and fluid organization. Ability to work well in a
    multicultural and collaborative environment.
-   Possess excellent written and oral communication skills; ability to
    present and share ideas clearly and effectively to a diverse
    audience.

 

**Desired Qualifications**

-   Experience documenting workflows and procedures.
-   Knowledge of metadata formats, including Dublin Core, MODS, METS,
    and data exchange protocols such as SWORD and OAI-PMH.
-   Experience working with digital repository or content management
    systems.
-   Experience in identifying researcher information needs and in
    creating effective services to meet those needs.
-   Demonstrated experience in the acquisition and management of
    born-digital or digitized library, archival, or research materials.
-   Demonstrated commitment to customer service.
-   Demonstrated time management and project completion skills.
