+++
nid = "6412"
jid = "00334"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-06-23 11:47"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6412"
title = "Data Visualization Analyst"
employer = "Duke University Libraries"
employerurl = ""
postdate = "2015-06-23"
archivedate = "2015-06-22"
draft = "false"
+++
The Data Visualization Analyst supports data visualization across
multiple disciplines at Duke University.  The position is responsible
for providing instruction and outreach to faculty, students, and
interdisciplinary campus groups, supporting both individual and team or
lab visualization projects. The Data Visualization Analyst also
represents Duke in the data visualization community and assists in
developing and evolving visualization services in concert with faculty
needs and research computing strategies. The position reports to the
Head of Data and Visualization Services within Duke University Libraries
and works under the guidance of the Data Visualization Coordinator.

**Responsibilities**

-   Advises, consults and provides technical support and training to
    students and faculty from all academic disciplines in the
    visualization of data.
-   Leads workshops and training session on data visualization tools and
    strategies.
-   Supports researchers in the Data and Visualization Lab with data and
    data visualization questions.
-   Creates guides, interfaces, and tutorials to enhance data
    visualization at Duke University.
-   Provides software assessment; recommends packages for site license
    consideration, and advises IT community on specifications for
    display and rendering hardware and software.
-   Participates in relevant conferences and meetings.  Takes
    responsibility for developing a personal development plan in
    alignment with the ITS strategic plan.
-   Performs other duties as assigned.
  
It is the expectation that all Duke University Libraries staff members
will demonstrate exceptional workplace behaviors in the execution of
their specific position responsibilities. These behaviors are customer
focus, collaboration, creative problem solving, continuous learning and
a commitment to diversity.

Required:

-   Master's degree in a field related to data visualization (e.g.,
    computational social science, information science, data science,
    data journalism, graphic design) or equivalent combination of
    education and experience.
-   One to three years' experience working in the area of information
    visualization or comparable education and experience;
-   Demonstrated ability to provide consultations and instruction to
    researchers on information visualization;
-   Demonstrated experience with one or more data visualization tools or
    libraries (e.g., Tableau, d3.js, ggplot2, 3D modelling software);
-   Broad experience with data cleaning/processing/transformation
    techniques;
-   An understanding of current best practices in designing
    visualizations based on research in the field, as demonstrated
    through sample visualization projects, publications, or training;
-   Excellent interpersonal, oral and written communication skills;
-   Able to work independently and as a member of a team.

Preferred:

-   Second advanced degree in a related field.
-   Previous experience supporting data visualization in a research
    setting;
-   Experience with data management (e.g., provenance documentation,
    data verification, archival formats);
-   Extensive experience in one or more of the following subfields of
    data visualization: information visualization, scientific
    visualization, geospatial visualization, visualization for
    humanities projects.
-   Experience with one or more programming/scripting languages (e.g.,
    Python, R, Javascript);
-   Able to construct and automatically extract information from
    databases;
