+++
nid = "6388"
jid = "00320"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-05-12 10:27"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6388"
title = "Data Management Librarian"
employer = "The University of Washington "
employerurl = "http://www.washington.edu/"
postdate = "2015-05-11"
archivedate = "2015-05-12"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Washington Libraries seeks a creative and energetic
librarian to provide leadership in the ongoing development and
implementation of the research data curriculum. The Data Management
Librarian works closely with subject librarians and other Libraries
experts in identifying content and delivery, as well as collaborating
with campus partners. The librarian implements, maintains, and
continually evaluates the Research Data Services Communication Plan.

**Specific Responsibilities and Duties**

The Data Management Librarian develops and implements a data curriculum,
and designs and conducts classes and walk-in workshops utilizing new
modes and tools in providing guidance and instruction in the areas of
data discovery, data literacy, and data management best practices for
library staff and users. The librarian collaborates with faculty and
other partners to integrate data management skills into the UW's
curriculum. The librarian implements and continually evaluates the
Research Data Services Communications Plan to broaden programmatic reach
and to keep the university community informed about policies and
activities regarding data services. With other members of the Data
Services Team, the librarian conducts needs assessments and measures
instructional outcomes to ensure program effectiveness.
  
**Required**

-   Graduate degree from a program accredited by the American Library
    Association or an equivalent graduate library science/information
    studies degree.
-   Demonstrated commitment to diversity and understanding of the
    contributions a diverse workforce brings to the workplace.
-   Minimum of two years post-MLIS experience in an academic library.
-   Demonstrated aptitude for teaching and developing user-oriented
    training and informational resources.
-   Demonstrated competence in using current technologies and multimedia
    tools in the creative design, enhancement and delivery of
    instruction.
-   Demonstrated ability to effectively build partnerships and work
    collaboratively with a variety of individuals and groups in a
    rapidly changing environment.
-   Demonstrated initiative, creativity, and flexibility, and evidence
    of success in conceiving, implementing, and managing new programs
    and services.
-   Evidence of excellent communication and interpersonal skills.
-   Evidence of the ability to handle multiple, complex projects
    simultaneously within established timeframes but with occasionally
    changing priorities and conditions with minimal supervision.

**Preferred**

-   Familiarity with, and commitment to, the discovery, use, and
    management of data.
-   Demonstrated knowledge of issues, trends, and current applications
    of the role of data in research and scholarly communication.
-   Evidence of the ability to design effective assessments of student
    learning and use of the data collected to guide personal teaching
    and professional development.
-   Experience assisting researchers with data management planning.
