+++
nid = "6790"
jid = "00348"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-08-13 13:26"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6790"
title = "Business & Data Librarian"
employer = "University of California, Berkeley"
employerurl = "http://www.berkeley.edu/"
postdate = "2015-08-10"
archivedate = "2015-08-13"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of California, Berkeley seeks a collaborative and
user-centered librarian to join a team of specialists supporting
world-class research and teaching in the social sciences through active
engagement with data literacy initiatives, course-based instruction and
workshops, individual research appointments, and outreach to students,
faculty, and the broader academic community.

Responsibilities

Reporting to the Head of the Library's Social Sciences Division, the
Business & Data Librarian assists faculty and students in identifying
and utilizing a complex array of numeric and textual databases, and
effectively managing bibliographic and research data. In addition, the
Business & Data Librarian supports the scholarly publishing efforts of
business faculty and graduate students and provides information about
UC's Open Access Policy. The librarian works closely with faculty and
students of the Haas School of Business 50% of the time, and the other
50% supports the broader social sciences with a particular focus on
research data management, statistical analysis, and scholarly
communication. The Business & Data Librarian works closely with
colleagues within the Library, Library's Data Lab, Social Science D-Lab,
Social Science Matrix, and Research IT to assist faculty and students
with quantitative research and data life-cycle management.

The Business & Data Librarian:

-   conducts in-depth research consultations and provides reference via
    email, live chat, phone, and in person at the Long Business Library
    reference desk (6-10 hours/week).
-   serves as a resource to other librarians in areas such as Research
    Data Management and quantitative research design, offering workshops
    and developing learning objects that can be integrated into course
    based instruction.
-   works with business and social science faculty and staff to develop
    and lead course-based instruction sessions and topic-based
    workshops.
-   develops research guides for the Haas School's six degree programs
    and assists with creation and development of the Business Library's
    website, topic-based research guides, blogs, and other online
    content
-   Additionally, the librarian will assume division-wide leadership
    responsibility for an initiative such as data management,
    instruction, scholarly communication, outreach, assessment, or data
    visualization.
  
 

**Minimum basic qualification required by time of application:**
American Library Association-accredited Master's degree or equivalent
degree.

**Additional required qualifications by date of hire:**

-   Experience providing reference or research services in an academic
    library, research library, or corporate environment.
-   Familiarity with business databases and resources, including SEC
    filings, market research, and company and financial data sources.
-   Experience with statistical and data analysis software, such as SAS,
    SPSS, R, or STATA.
-   Knowledge of trends and issues in open access and scholarly
    communication in the social sciences.

**Additional preferred qualifications:**

-   Experience creating instructional and information materials.
-   Experience teaching library instruction classes in an academic
    environment.
-   Familiarity with research data management tools and practices
-   Proven commitment to public services and improving the user
    experience.
-   Excellent analytical, organizational, problem solving,
    interpersonal, and communication skills.
-   Demonstrated initiative, flexibility, creativity and the ability to
    work effectively both independently and as a team member.
