+++
nid = "6819"
jid = "00360"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-09-15 13:30"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6819"
title = "Head of Digital Research Services"
employer = "University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill"
employerurl = "http://www.unc.edu/"
postdate = "2015-09-11"
archivedate = "2015-09-15"
draft = "false"
+++
The Head of Digital Research Services provides vision and strategic
leadership for digital research services at the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill Libraries. Reporting to the Director of Public
Services, the Head of Digital Research Services leads a department of 3
librarians and 2 support staff, oversees the Research Hub in Davis
Library, and helps develop coordinated services and programming across
the other campus Hub locations.

Digital Research Services (DRS) supports research involving geographic
information systems (GIS), geographic data, numeric data, statistics,
data visualization, and digital humanities. The Head of DRS develops and
delivers responsive, innovative, technology-driven services and fosters
the exploration and adoption of new tools and approaches to research.
The person in this position engages and collaborates with UNC faculty
and students to identify and implement emerging technologies and to
design support services that incorporate best practices.

The Head of DRS works closely with Library & Information Technology
staff, subject specialists in all disciplines, facilities staff and
others to design, deliver and assess new research services and support.
The Librarian stays abreast of current digital research trends and
developments, and works to identify and develop strategic partnerships
with other research support providers.

The Head of DRS ensures that the Research Hub fosters and sustains a
vibrant research community. This person ensures the Research Hub
maintains high visibility at UNC and beyond by providing cutting edge
technology, creative and effective information services, and dynamic
outreach and events programming. This person works with Library
Communications on direct marketing, branding, and outreach efforts, and
with Library Development to seek funding, equipment, and potential
partnerships.
  
**REQUIRED:**
• ALA accredited MLS or equivalent degree.
• 5 years of experience working in an academic environment, preferably
in a research library.
• 3 years of supervisory experience.
• Knowledge of current trends in digital research, digital information
and new research technologies.
• Demonstrated ability to evaluate and apply new technologies in
research.
• Ability to foster communication and teamwork and effectively partner
with stakeholders.
• Ability to manage complex, long-term projects and to prepare accurate
and detailed budgets.

**PREFERRED:**
• Experience developing and assessing library services and programs.
• Facilities management experience.
• Fund-raising and donor relations skills.
• Public relations and marketing skills.
• Experience negotiating with vendors of equipment and services.
• Advanced degree in or demonstrated knowledge of digital research
methodologies for relevant subjects.
