+++
nid = "6824"
jid = "00365"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-10-08 17:10"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6824"
title = "Librarian for Research Data"
employer = "Tufts University"
employerurl = "http://www.tufts.edu/"
postdate = "2015-10-02"
archivedate = "2015-10-08"
draft = "false"
+++
[ ]{.text}

The Tisch Library at Tufts University supports teaching, learning, and
the creation and dissemination of scholarship in the School of Arts &
Sciences and School of Engineering (AS&E). With an ambitious strategic
plan and research agenda, Tufts is a dynamic institution rising in
prominence. Through the provision of collections, subject expertise, and
technology-rich research and learning environments Tisch Library plays a
critical role helping advance the mission of the University.


The Collections department of Tisch Library is newly re-organized to
better align with our strategic plans. With a focus on engaging deeply
with faculty, we make strategic decisions in how best to provide access
and, where appropriate, long-term preservation to the collections needed
to support the teaching and research excellence of AS&E. To do this, the
department has a deep understanding of the processes of scholarly
communication, recognizing how different formats, different modes of
communicating information, and different disciplinary practices impact
the transfer and development of knowledge over time.


Reporting to the Head of Collections, the successful candidate in this
new position will lead Tisch outreach around research data and related
data management services, with an emphasis on working with AS&E faculty
and researchers. The Librarian for Research Data will be the resident
expert for Tisch in current trends in the research data lifecycle and
will maintain awareness of relevant funder mandates around research
data.

 

Additional responsibilities include developing best practices for
collecting, preserving, and sharing/re-using research data; working with
other library and campus partners to design services, programs, and
infrastructure related to the research data lifecycle; and providing
training and support to colleagues around research data.


As a member of the Collections department, the person in this position
will oversee the sciences collection in support of the curricular and
research needs of AS&E, and will serve on Tisch and interlibrary teams
as needed.
  
[ ]{.text}

**Basic Requirements:**

-   At the rank of Assistant Librarian, at least 2 years of professional
    experience. At the rank of Associate Librarian, at least 6 years
    professional experience.
-   ALA-accredited MLIS or equivalent advanced degree/experience.
-   Strong service orientation and interest in library patrons' values
    and needs.
-   Excellent communication skills, including the ability to work well
    in a team-based environment with a diverse group and to explain
    complex topics to a variety of audiences.
-   Demonstrable expertise in issues around research data.


**Preferred Qualifications:**

-   Science degree and/or significant educational experience in the
    sciences or in a lab.

-   Thorough understanding of the scholarly communication lifecycle.

-   Significant understanding of the common, major funder mandates for
    open data.

-   Experience working with faculty and researchers on data management
    plans.

-   Experience in an academic library.

-   Collection development experience.
