+++
nid = "6404"
jid = "00330"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-06-17 09:01"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6404"
title = "CIC Geospatial Project Metadata Coordinator"
employer = "University of Minnesota Libraries, Twin Cities"
employerurl = ""
postdate = "2015-06-15"
archivedate = "2015-06-17"
draft = "false"
+++
Reporting to the Head of the John R. Borchert Map Library, and working
closely with the CIC Geospatial Data Discovery Project Manager, the CIC
Geospatial Data Task Force, and other CIC geospatial information
entities, the CIC Geospatial Project Metadata Coordinator holds primary
responsibilities in these areas:

-   Metadata Coordination and Management -- standards. creation.
    transformation. ingest.   Establish and document metadata
    guidelines, following standardized geospatial metadata application
    profiles. Develop geospatial metadata creation and editing processes
    including use of linked data. Manage metadata crosswalks,
    transformations, and efficient spatial data ingest processes.
    Oversee quality control measures to ensure effective discovery and
    access to spatial data by the user community. Consults with staff in
    the University Libraries' Data Management & Access department.

<!-- -->

-   Workflow Analysis and Process Development  -- analyzes user
    workflows and data flows to inform the design and development  of
    low-barrier processes for geospatial metadata creation by
    institutions involved in the CIC Geospatial Data Discovery Project.
    Develop, in collaboration with the Project Manager and the CIC
    Geospatial Data Task Force, systematic processes for ensuring that
    ingested spatial data is made discoverable and accessible (via a
    geoportal).

<!-- -->

-   Metadata Recruitment - Develop and execute a strategy to acquire and
    build a corpus of geospatial metadata pertinent to the research
    needs of participating CIC institutions. Conduct community
    assessments to inform the identification of content recruitment
    targets.

<!-- -->

-   Consultation and Advocacy -- consults with University Libraries and
    U-Spatial staff, as well as the CIC Geospatial Data Task Force, on
    policy and procedural issues related to the creation, management and
    dissemination of geospatial metadata assets. Consultation areas
    include, but are not limited to, the application of policies related
    to participating institutions, general issues on copyright and data
    governance (e.g., open access allowances, as well as controls over
    legally private and sensitive data), and best practices related to
    metadata creation. Supports end-user training activities and creates
    documentation to make it easy for people to use CIC geospatial data
    resources
  
**Required:**

-   Master's degree in library/information science from an American
    Library Association accredited library school, GIS-related field, or
    equivalent combination of advanced degree and relevant experience.
-   Experience with metadata creation, standards, and management.
-   Familiarity with tools and techniques involving metadata validation,
    crosswalks, authorities and registries, and transformations.
-   Experience working with data in XML format.
-   Excellent assessment, analytical, problem-solving and
    decision-making skills.
-   Demonstrated project management skills.
-   Excellent communication, presentation, interpersonal and
    relationship-building skills.
-   Demonstrated initiative, self-direction, and ability to work
    independently.
-   Demonstrated ability to work collaboratively in a research-intensive
    environment.

**Preferred:**

-   Demonstrated interest in geospatial data resources.
-   Experience with geospatial metadata and ISO 19115 or FGDC standards.
-   Demonstrated understanding of cartographic and geospatial resources
    and concepts.
-   Experience with geographical information systems,
    including/especially Esri's ArcGIS software.
-   Understanding of common web and open source technologies for
    geospatial data such as Python, GeoServer, PostGIS, Openlayers, and
    GDAUOGR.
-   Experience with transforming metadata through XSLT or scripting.
-   Data programming  experience, for example scripting or performing
    batch metadata operations/transformations using standard tools and
    methods.
-   Knowledge of data repository, preservation, and curation concepts
    and their application.
-   Demonstrated interest in the applications of current and emerging
    technologies and their integration into the delivery of information
    services.
-   Demonstrated aptitude for teaching and developing user-oriented
    documentation.
