+++
nid = "6681"
jid = "00339"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-07-10 15:07"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6681"
title = "Intern in Data Analytics"
employer = "The Health Foundation"
employerurl = "http://www.health.org.uk/"
postdate = "2015-07-08"
archivedate = "2015-07-10"
draft = "false"
+++
The Data Analytics team at the Foundation was founded last year and
consists of the Director of Data Analytics, a Data Manager and five Data
Analysts.  The team work creatively and collaboratively partnering with
NHS teams to experiment with new ways of improving care using data
analytics. We are pleased to be offering an Internship in this area and
we are open to applications at both undergraduate and graduate level.

Working with the Data Manager, the successful candidate will have the
opportunity to develop and test useful skills in a safe environment;
gain skills and experience specific to data professionals; learn from
current best practice at the Foundation and wider community through
(team) meetings and seminars; shadow senior members of the Data
Analytics team.
  
Knowledge and experience
1. An understanding of statistical concepts and/or data linking
methodologies.
2. Knowledge and experience of working with SAS, Stata, R or any other
programming language.
3. Experience of conducting analyses using (large) data sets.
4. Experience of working on datasets in health and social care
(desirable).
5. Currently undertaking or a recent graduate with a degree in a
relevant quantitative subject

Skills and abilities
1. Interest in information governance as well as data security.
2. Ability to quickly learn and apply Statistical Disclosure Control to
research outputs.
3. Excellent analytical skills.
4. Proficient in Microsoft Office with particular skills in Excel to an
advanced level.
5. A can-do attitude and resilience.
6. A person who is meticulous and exact.
7. A person who is flexible, respectful of colleagues, and adaptable.
8. An understanding of, and commitment to, equal opportunities and
diversity.
