+++
nid = "6678"
jid = "00337"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-07-08 11:43"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6678"
title = "Research Data Specialist"
employer = "University of Birmingham"
employerurl = "http://www.birmingham.ac.uk"
postdate = "2015-07-08"
archivedate = "2015-07-07"
draft = "false"
+++
The Research Data Specialist will join the Research Computing Team in IT
Services. The post's responsibilities focus on advising and supporting
research groups to effectively manage their data and make best use of
the full range of the Birmingham Environment for Academic Research
(BEAR) services. Drawing on a strong technical background, the Research
Data Specialist will help to shape and support the underlying data
storage and archiving services; safeguarding and appropriately making
available the University's key research data assets.
  
-   Formal education to degree level or equivalent.
-   Sound core computing knowledge and skills including networking,
    security and scripting.
-   Sound knowledge of Unix or Linux as well as Windows, and associated
    software applications.
-   Proven ability to support IT users with complex needs, ideally in a
    Research environment.
-   Familiar with the concepts of data management and archive
    particularly in a research context
-   Relevant experience in C&IT, ideally including a period working with
    advanced Storage and Archiving systems and associated backup would
    be an advantage
-   Familiarity with the technologies used in High Performance Computing
    would be an advantage
-   Good customer relationship management skills, coupled with diplomacy
    and ability to deal with senior professional and academic staff.
-   Proven ability to work as part of a team to deliver services
-   A self-motivated learner with a track record of continually updating
    skills.
-   Good communication skills, both written and oral.
-   Good broad knowledge of C&IT, including latest technology industry
    trends.
-   Knowledge of Higher Education, Research and its environment.
-   Familiarity with ITIL is desirable
