+++
nid = "6811"
jid = "00352"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-08-24 12:39"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6811"
title = " Interdisciplinary Quantitative Research Librarian"
employer = "Princeton University"
employerurl = "http://www.princeton.edu/main/"
postdate = "2015-08-24"
archivedate = "2015-08-24"
draft = "false"
+++
The Princeton University Library seeks a talented, energetic,
service-oriented professional to support the University's increased
focus on quantitative data research across areas including  politics,
public policy, international studies, energy and environment, financial
engineering, entrepreneurship, economics, sociology, population, public
health, education, biology, psychology and the humanities.  This
position provides specialized reference and research services in
discovering and understanding quantitative and analytical sources.
Actively participates in a team environment to develop and efficiently
implement instructional, outreach, research and reference services to
Princeton University students and faculty and works closely with subject
librarians to support their liaison role to departments and programs
offering courses which require quantitative research. Creates research
guides to promote access to analytical and data sources. This librarian
represents Princeton in the relevant regional, national, and
international professional and scholarly organizations. This position is
part of the Research and Instructional Services Department, reporting to
the Associate University Librarian for Research and Instructional
Services.
  
**Required:**

-   An ALA-accredited Master's degree in library/information science by
    date of hire or equivalent combination of education & professional
    library experience in a quantitative social science or science such
    as politics, sociology, economics, business or environment.
-   Excellent communication and interpersonal skills and ability to work
    successfully and collegially with a diverse group of scholars and
    colleagues.

**Strongly Preferred:**

-   Strong familiarity with academic research incorporating quantitative
    data; expertise with statistical databases.
-   Undergraduate or higher degree in a social science or science
    discipline.
-   Experience conducting instruction in an academic setting or
    experience with public outreach programs or equivalent experience
    with instruction, outreach, and assistance for individual
    researchers.
-   Ability to work effectively in a rapidly changing environment.
