+++
nid = "6872"
jid = "00381"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-01-08 13:18"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6872"
title = "Lead Senior Research Data Management System Developer"
employer = "Harvard Medical School"
employerurl = "http://www.harvard.edu/"
postdate = "2015-12-17"
archivedate = "2016-01-08"
draft = "false"
+++
[A joint project between the SBGrid Consortium at Harvard Medical School
and the Dataverse Team at the Institute for Quantitative Social Science
at Harvard University has an immediate opening for a lead developer to
help us build a next generation data publication system for large
biomedical datasets. We aim to make biomedical datasets publicly
available through a federated data grid to facilitate access, citation,
and data analysis by scientists. Our pilot collection includes datasets
generated using X-ray crystallography, computer modeling, lattice light
sheet microscopy, and microED diffraction. This collection is currently
replicated to computing centers in the US, Europe, Asia, and South
America. The project is supported by the Helmsley Charitable Trust and
was recently selected as a pilot of the U.S. National Data Service. To
learn more about the environment, please visit our current
implementation at data.sbgrid.org and our group websites at sbgrid.org,
slizlab.org, and <http://datascience.iq.harvard.edu/team>.

The lead developer will be responsible for successfully migrating our
in-house research data management system, written in Python, to
Dataverse (http://dataverse.org) after first extending Dataverse (with
the full support of the Dataverse development team) to include the
features necessary for the migration. The candidate will develop a final
set of requirements based on the feedback and experience of the end-user
community using our current pilot system. Examples of features that must
be added to Dataverse include better support for large (~100 GB)
datasets, automatic data validation pipelines, and other functionalities
relevant to specific biomedical data types. The lead developer will also
help to evaluate data transfer and upload and management technologies,
such as Globus, that can integrate with Dataverse to support larger
datasets and provide direct computing on the data. The developer will
work with our team to ensure that all new functionality developed under
this project is merged into the Dataverse open source project and shared
with the community.

As a senior member of our team, this individual will also support
training junior members, collaborate with collection specialists, and
present outcomes of the project at meetings and conferences.]{.TEXT}
  
[Bachelor's Degree in computer science or engineering and 5-8 years of
strong programming experience is essential, preferably in Java and
Python, ideally in the context of web applications.]{.TEXT}


[Our team will welcome candidates with diverse technical backgrounds,
but the successful candidate will have experience handling large
datasets and leading software development projects. A working knowledge
of Linux, shell scripting, databases, and distributed version control
systems (git, mercurial, etc) is also necessary. The ideal candidate
will also be familiar with data management software and the handling and
analysis of large datasets.]{.TEXT}
