+++
nid = "6376"
jid = "00313"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-04-21 12:43"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6376"
title = "Library Research Intern"
employer = "The Federal Reserve Board "
employerurl = "http://www.federalreserve.gov/"
postdate = "2015-04-21"
archivedate = "2015-04-21"
draft = "false"
+++
The Research Library at the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System is offering a paid summer internship for graduate level library
or information science students.  The Research Library offers a full
array of desktop and customized library services to staff members at the
Board and assists in data intensive and Internet dependent Board
research.

The Research Library is looking for a summer intern to advance several
projects that will allow the Library to improve services to the Board
community.

The intern will work with librarians on such projects as:

-   Mobile Research Library -- evaluate the library's mobile website and
    suggest and implement improvements in presentation and marketing.
     The project will include getting assessments from current
    subscribers.
-   Library Communications -- assist in the development of a
    communications plan for the library.  The plan will outline
    activities relating to communicating the availability of library
    resources and services and general customer education.
-   Text analytics -- assist in exploring the tools and the
    technological, contractual, and customer education aspects of text
    analytics for news.

  The internship is located in Washington, D.C. and lasts ten to twelve
weeks.
  
Students enrolled in a Master's degree program in library or information
science at an ALA-accredited institution are encouraged to apply.
Candidates should have a knowledge of and interest in technology used to
support library services. The projects require attention to detail,
initiative, and good communication skills.   Knowledge of economics,
banking, finance, or business topics is desirable.
