+++
nid = "6395"
jid = "00326"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-05-28 15:12"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6395"
title = "Data Curator"
employer = "Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City"
employerurl = "https://www.kansascityfed.org/"
postdate = "2015-05-27"
archivedate = "2015-05-28"
draft = "false"
+++
[ ]{.text}

Collaborates and consults with Bank staff, including research staff, on
the selection, research, acquisition, documentation, organization, and
storage of information.

**Key Activities:
**• Develop and maintain knowledge about data curation activities
including assignment of identifiers for papers and data, and maintenance
of archival information packages.
• Acquire and maintain knowledge of research data curation trends and
issues in institutional repositories.
• Become familiar with data citation and linking work to be able to
maintain data citation database.
• Build relationships with users and technical staff to ensure data
storage, organization and long-term preservation.
• Develop and maintain relationships with data curation community to be
able to coordinate training as needed.
• Develop and maintain expertise on long-term preservation of research
data.
  
[• Master's degree from ALA-accredited institution in Library Science
required; coursework emphasizing data curation or data archival services
preferred. Alternatively, an advanced degree in a data-intensive
research field and minimum one year of relevant experience in an
academic or research setting would be considered.
• Familiarity with issues in research data curation and dissemination
preferred.
• Demonstrated interest in practices in data transfer, infrastructure,
and interoperability.
• Experience or familiarity with archival platforms preferred. ]{.text}
