+++
nid = "6396"
jid = "00327"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-05-28 15:18"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6396"
title = "Data Services Librarian"
employer = "Middlebury College"
employerurl = "http://www.middlebury.edu/"
postdate = "2015-05-28"
archivedate = "2015-05-28"
draft = "false"
+++
The Data Services Librarian provides general research and academic
technology assistance to students, faculty and staff. This support
includes serving as a library liaison to assigned departments. As a
liaison, the person in this position promotes the wide range of services
offered by the library, developing strong working relationships with
faculty, and preparing for changes in the curriculum and teaching
methods being used. The Data Services Librarian teaches information
skills, provides one-on-one consultations, and creates research guides
and other instructional materials. The person in this position is
responsible for development of specific areas of the library's
collection, including maintenance of the library's government
information resources.

A special focus for this position is data services. The person in this
position provides expert assistance to faculty and students working with
data, concentrating on the social sciences and humanities but stretching
across the curriculum as needed. This includes advice regarding data
analysis and interpretation, instruction in new tools and techniques,
and support for visualization of data.
  
-   Graduate degree in Library and Information Science from an
    [ALA]{.caps}-accredited institution or equivalent and a strong
    background in at least one liberal arts academic subject required.
-   Undergraduate or graduate degree in the social sciences, or
    significant discipline-specific experience in an academic library,
    required.
-   Excellent instruction and research skills, oral and written
    communication skills, and interpersonal skills required.
-   Strong understanding of data structures and data gathering methods
    required.
-   Knowledge of existing and emerging statistical and other academic
    technologies required.
-   Creativity, flexibility and a willingness to develop new
    competencies required.
-   Ability to work in a team oriented environment required.
-   Experience with quantitative or qualitative data services and
    software is required.
-   Experience with the manipulation of datasets and data visualization
    tools is required.
-   Experience with government information collections is preferred but
    not required.
-   At least 2 years of post-degree experience in an academic library,
    including instruction, is preferred but not required.
