+++
nid = "6352"
jid = "00301"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-02-02 17:30"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6352"
title = "Research IT Architect/Analys"
employer = "University of California, Berkeley"
employerurl = "http://www.berkeley.edu/index.html"
postdate = "2015-02-02"
archivedate = "2015-02-02"
draft = "false"
+++
The Research IT unit is hiring an IT Architect to fill two related roles
in our service portfolio: Architect/Analyst in the Berkeley Research
Computing (BRC) program, focusing on virtual workstation support, and
Architect/Analyst for the Research Data Management (RDM) service. This
is a contract position in a dynamic group supporting research across the
campus. 

The Berkeley Research Computing program provides computing solutions and
consulting to faculty across the campus, ranging from traditional high
performance computing to cloud computing and virtualized workstations.
The Architect/Analyst is responsible to lead the research and design of
virtualized computing services that will support the current and
emerging needs across a wide range of campus disciplines for scalable
research computation and data management. This includes needs analysis,
current practices among faculty researchers, emerging models for
computation, and business analysis of public, private, and virtual
private models for virtualized computing models, including
container-based computing. The Architect/Analyst will work with Research
IT staff, other service providers within IST, departmental IT staff, and
specialists in research computing (e.g., in the College of Engineering
and associated research labs), to determine best approaches to meet
identified needs. This [may]{.Object} include building prototypes,
templates, and/or documentation of the services. The Virtual Workstation
Service is currently in definition, and will be one of several research
computing services; the Architect/Analyst will work closely with peer
architects in Research IT to ensure that the services mesh together into
a coherent portfolio for the campus.

The Research Data Management Program is a multi-year effort to provide
Berkeley researchers with access to a rich toolset supporting data
management through its full lifecycle, from planning through archiving
and data sharing. A cross-campus community of consultants and service
providers will catalog and coordinate support and documentation for
current and emerging data management challenges; compliance with policy
requirements; and improved stewardship of research data. The
Architect/Analyst will provide technical leadership for the service
definition and implementation. This includes working with researchers to
determine specific needs, working with key partners on campus (e.g., the
Library, and IST) to identify existing solutions and gaps. The
Architect/Analyst will work closely with other RDM staff, and with the
broader Research IT team, to ensure that RDM services align well to the
full service portfolio.  

The IT Architect will also contribute to strategic analysis and
documentation of emerging needs in other Research IT service areas,
including needs analysis, review of service offerings at peer
institutions, etc.
  
• Advanced knowledge of research computing, research data management,
and data analysis workflows.

• Expert knowledge of data storage, processing, analysis, and
visualization technologies and how they are used in research and/or
academic endeavors at a large, top-tier research university.

• In-depth knowledge of virtual machine image management tools and
techniques.

• Expertise relating to the design and development of research
applications and research portals across a University organization.

• Knowledge of network protocols and how they are used on a large
(campus-wide or beyond) network.

• Strong interpersonal skills in order to work with both technical and
non-technical personnel (especially faculty and graduate student
researchers) at various levels in the organization.

• Experience with the challenges of research IT across a range of
domains, including Chemistry, Biology, Astronomy/Astrophysics, Geography
(Climate Research), Computer Science, Social Sciences, and the
Humanities.

• Ability to communicate technical information in a clear and concise
manner.

• Ability to translate research needs into long-term architecture
solutions.

• Bachelor's degree in related area and/or equivalent
experience/training.
