+++
nid = "6831"
jid = "00371"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-10-26 12:44"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6831"
title = "Director, Inter-University Consortium for Political and Social Research"
employer = "University of Michigan"
employerurl = "http://umich.edu/"
postdate = "2015-10-21"
archivedate = "2015-10-26"
draft = "false"
+++
Reporting to the Governing Council of ICPSR and to the Director of the
Institute of Social Research (ISR), the Director of ICPSR is responsible
for the operations and personnel within the Center. She or he will lead
the faculty and staff, seek external funding, set policy together with
the ICPSR Council and the ISR, and be prepared to speak prominently,
nationally and internationally, on behalf of issues related to social
science and its data infrastructure. We seek candidates whose
background, experience, and vision for the future will provide
innovative leadership of ICPSR in the context of the rapidly changing
worlds of social science research, data, education, and information
technology, as envisioned within the greater context of ISR.
  
Candidates must have a Ph.D. or the equivalent in a field related to the
interests of ICPSR as well as significant understanding of social
science research, data, and instruction. They must have a record of
scholarly excellence, success in garnering external funding, recruiting
and mentoring others, and leading change in an organization. Candidates
must be proactive and adept builders of relationships with other
institutions and agencies involved in or supporting the collection and
promulgation of large-scale data. They must be clear and open
communicators with staff at all levels.

Ideal candidates will have demonstrated the ability to successfully lead
and manage an organization that has a diverse portfolio of funding
sources. They will know how to set strategic priorities and policy for
data curation and management, particularly as these relate to rapidly
changing technology, user needs, institutional roles, and funding
models. Strong business skills are essential. Sound judgement,
intellectual and practical agility, energy, and the organizational
skills to handle multiple projects simultaneously are all critical.
