+++
nid = "6341"
jid = "00297"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-01-07 11:18"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6341"
title = "Senior Data Manager"
employer = "NatCen Social Research"
employerurl = "http://www.natcen.ac.uk/"
postdate = "2015-01-07"
archivedate = "2015-01-07"
draft = "false"
+++
We are looking to recruit a Senior Research Data Manager to join our
Longitudinal Survey Group in the Survey Research Centre to work on the
English Longitudinal Study of Ageing (ELSA). The post involves working
with researchers to plan data management and taking responsibility for
the management of large and complex datasets.

Duties and Responsibilities:

-   Work with researchers to specify and plan data management within
    projects
-   Construct and maintain SPSS data files.
-   Check and edit data, ensuring data integrity and continuity.
-   Write derived variables in SPSS, in conjunction with the research
    team.
-   Provision of data sets to internal and external users (including
    Data Archive), and keeping archived data sets up-to-date (e.g. with
    flagged data).
-   Carry out, and validate, data linkages (e.g. with census data,
    administrative data, different datasets over time or from different
    surveys).
-   Carry out cross-tabulation and other statistical analyses.
-   Contribute to substantive and technical reports.
-   Ensure all procedures and questionnaires are fully documented.
-   Be the main contact for data queries and enquiries for NatCen
    researchers, other NatCen staff, clients, collaborators and external
    data users.
-   Be aware of data protection and confidentiality issues.
-   Miscellaneous tasks (e.g. sorting out samples or feed forward data
    for follow-up studies).
  
Essential:

-   Experience of data management is essential, this includes experience
    gained in academia, government, other public sector, voluntary
    sector or market research settings.
-   Candidates must demonstrate a high standard of achievement in data
    management.
-   Senior Data Managers may be expected to work on more than one
    project at a time, and the ability to work well under pressure and
    to manage deadlines is essential.
-   Experience of statistical software (SPSS or STATA) is essential

Desired:

-   Experience of dealing with longitudinal data would be an advantage
    for this post.
