+++
nid = "6852"
jid = "00376"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-12-07 14:22"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6852"
title = "Postdoctoral Fellowship in Data Curation/Data Curator"
employer = "Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City"
employerurl = "https://www.kansascityfed.org"
postdate = "2015-12-03"
archivedate = "2015-12-07"
draft = "false"
+++
The [Center for the Advancement of Data and Research in
Economics](https://www.kansascityfed.org/research/cadre) (CADRE) at the
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City supports economic research
activities across the Federal Reserve System and with external research
partners. CADRE provides services for finding, organizing, and sharing
information and research in three areas: technology, data curation and
content curation, and support. CADRE is developing its data curation
service as part of its mission to support, enhance and advance data or
computationally intensive research in economics. 

The Data Curator will play a vital role in establishing best practices
for our data curation program, including the long-term preservation of
and access to research data and derivative works. The Data Curator will
work with researchers to document, store, identify, and disseminate
research outputs. The Data Curator will also support broader research
efforts through training, institutional repository maintenance and
development, and as a liaison to technology and other System business
areas.
  
**Required Qualifications**

-   PhD in a data-intensive research field (economics or other social
    science, business, finance, or technology). 
-   Expertise in supporting social science research including an
    understanding of issues related to data or computationally intensive
    research and scholarly publishing.
-   Strong knowledge of issues and developments in institutional
    repositories.
-   Strong awareness of both national and international trends and
    developments in research data curation and management as well as
    metadata standards and best practices in digital curation
-   Strong knowledge of research infrastructure, tools, and standards
    for preservation, data formats and migration, discovery and access.

**Preferred Qualifications**

-   Library or information school coursework or degree preferred.
-   Curation and/or data archival experience. Some expertise in data
    storage technologies and curation or archival platform products.
