+++
nid = "6828"
jid = "00368"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-10-16 13:35"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6828"
title = "Head of Research Data Services"
employer = "University College London"
employerurl = "http://www.ucl.ac.uk/"
postdate = "2015-10-15"
archivedate = "2015-10-16"
draft = "false"
+++
UCL is one of the UK's premier universities and is ranked in the top
ten universities in the world. With over 11,000 staff and 36,000
students from across the world, UCL thrives on the diversity and
creativity of its community and is an inspiring university in which to
work and study. The post-holder will play a pivotal role in supporting
UCL's research strategy and promoting best practice in research data
storage and management as enablers of academic research and outputs.

Working within the growing Research IT Services Department, the Head of
Research Data Services will provide strategic leadership in the
development of research data storage and archive services at UCL. These
may include fully owned and operated services, consortium based services
or cloud-based services. You will oversee the next phase of expansion of
our established Research Data Storage Service, and the development and
roll-out of the closely allied Research Data Archive Service.

Research IT Services benefits from an annual capital budget in excess of
£2m, and an operational budget of £1.4m, with responsibility for
specific service areas and projects devolved to Heads of Group.

You will work collaboratively with researchers, colleagues and peers to
ensure that these services meet the needs of UCL's world leading
research community, balanced against considerations of cost and
sustainability.

Leading a team of four staff, you will also be responsible for providing
user support through a range of methods, including 'helpdesk', general
advice and consultancy, and classroom training.

Working with the Director of Research IT Services, the Head of Research
Data Services will represent UCL in relevant external networks and
communities, national and international. An appropriate travel budget is
provided for this purpose.

We are seeking an energetic and creative individual to join the Research
IT Services management team.

This is a leadership role and your ability to communicate effectively,
and forge relationships with a diverse stakeholder community will be
critical to success
  
You will have demonstrable knowledge and understanding of key
technologies, policy and trends related to the storage and management of
research data, and a proven track record of shaping strategy and
practice in this area.

You will also have operational experience playing a senior role in the
delivery of an IT service, sound organisational skills and a proven
ability to manage multiple concurrent tasks and threads of activity.
