+++
nid = "6377"
jid = "00314"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-04-23 14:46"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6377"
title = "Data Management Consultant"
employer = "Johns Hopkins University"
employerurl = "http://www.jhu.edu/"
postdate = "2015-04-22"
archivedate = "2015-04-23"
draft = "false"
+++
The Data Management Consultant will provide consultative data management
planning support and training to JHU researchers. The primary duties and
responsibilities of the job:

-   Manage inquiries from researchers for data management planning
    support.
-   Provide consultative support to PIs including evaluation of data
    planning needs, assessing options for sharing data, catering
    planning to specific granting agency or publisher requirements, and
    editing data management plans.
-   Track specific scientific domain areas building knowledge and
    expertise in data types, formats, and needs within domains.
-   Identify data standards, metadata standards, best practices for data
    management, etc. to continuously build expertise and improve
    provision of service.
-   Maintain knowledge on a broad range of data repositories including
    their submission, Intellectual Property, and use arrangements, and
    provide guidance on repository selection for deposit.
-   Develop and deliver data management training programs including
    training materials.
-   Proactively collaborate and coordinate with JHUDMS team to implement
    data management plans, including coordinating data deposits with
    researchers and preparing collections for archiving in the JHU Data
    Archive.
-   Collaborate with others in the library to effectively communicate
    services to faculty, researchers, and departments.
-   Manage short and long-term communications and relationships with
    PIs, including outreach and training in data management best
    practices.
-   Liaise with JHU-wide staff and administrators to support the
    continued integration and visibility of data management services
    available to researchers.
-   Manage short and long-term communications and relationships with
    PIs, including outreach and training in data management best
    practices.
-   Liaise with JHU-wide staff and administrators to support the
    continued integration and visibility of data management services
    available to researchers.
  
-   Requires a Master's degree in Science, Engineering, Advanced degree
    in Health Sciences, or Library and Information Science.
-   A minimum of three (3) years combined of library, information
    technology, informatics, and/or scientific research experience
    required.
-   Experience working with scientific or health sciences data
    management and/or data curation and archiving preferred.
-   Experience with one or more components of the research data life
    cycle: creation, processing, analyzing, preserving, providing access
    to, and re-using.
-   Experience conducting trainings and workshop presentations
    preferred.
-   Incumbent must be self-motivated, pro-active, willing to take on new
    challenges and solve problems with minimal supervision.
-   Requires a good listener with a high degree of customer orientation.
-   Superb people skills, strong team-orientation, and professional
    attitude.
-   Clear and consistent communicator.
-   Strong writing skills.
-   Strong project planning, management, and execution skills.
-   Demonstrated ability to work with and easily adapt to new
    technology.

Preferred Qualification: 

-    Experience working with life sciences research data, especially
    those in medical disciplines with human subjects.
