+++
nid = "6827"
jid = "00367"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-10-14 16:26"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6827"
title = "Senior Data Archivist"
employer = "Cornell University "
employerurl = "https://www.cornell.edu/ "
postdate = "2015-10-12"
archivedate = "2015-10-14"
draft = "false"
+++
This position assures that data accepted into the Roper Center Archive
are maintained using the best practices in archival methods and are
offered in current formats so as to permit both long term preservation
and dissemination.  The RC Archivist develops and adopts archival
standards for the Roper Center's collections; manages and coordinates
various workflows within the archive collections in accordance with
expanding data curation and online accessibility requirements; supports
Roper Center's member clients in the use of data files for secondary
analysis. Coordinates day-to-day operations that ensure the quality,
timeliness, and comprehensiveness of the iPOLL Databank.  Plans,
implements and directs iPOLL production workflows.  Researches and
proposes policies for long-term preservation and accessibility of Roper
Center iPOLL polling and survey data.  

The incumbent will also work with data donors and providers to develop
collections, and respond to user inquiries in regards to finding,
accessing and using Roper Center data files for secondary analysis, and
supervise student interns.   This position plays a leading role in
supporting long-term management of research data throughout the data
lifecycle.
  
Required:

-   MLIS (or Master's Degree in relevant social science field), or
    Bachelor's degree combined with five or more years of experience
    working with archive management and workflows.  Demonstrated
    knowledge of archives and records management theory and practice,
    including experience processing archival records.
-   Knowledge of data preservation theory and practice, as well as
    strategies and technologies utilized by the archival community for
    managing data.
-   Knowledge of relevant standards for archival data description,
    including DDI   and familiarity with other metadata standards such
    as METS and PREMIS.
-   Excellent organizational skills and ability to plan, coordinate, and
    implement complex projects.
-   [Excellent interpersonal, oral, and written communication
    skills.]{.image-left} [• Ability to work both independently and
    collaboratively with a variety of staff in a rapidly changing
    environment.]{.image-left} [• Familiarity with social science data
    and analysis. Comfortable with SPSS, Stata, R or similar statistics
    software. ]{.image-left}

 Preferred:

[ ]{.image-left}

-   Two to three years of relevant professional experience, preferably
    in academic archives.
-   Experience implementing policies, standards, and procedures for
    stewardship of data in an archive.
-   Background in social sciences or related field, with some exposure
    to methods and research skills
