+++
nid = "6384"
jid = "00317"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-04-29 14:39"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6384"
title = "Repository Librarian"
employer = "The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill"
employerurl = "http://www.unc.edu/"
postdate = "2015-04-29"
archivedate = "2015-04-29"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill University Library seeks
a Repository Librarian for the Carolina Digital Repository.  Reporting
to the Head of Software Development within the division of Library and
Information Technology (LIT), the Repository Librarian is responsible
for day-to-day management and operations of the Carolina Digital
Repository (CDR), the preservation home for significant digitized,
at-risk, and born digital collections.  The librarian will ensure
accurate ingest of materials, train others in the use of CDR tools,
manage and coordinate operations with a diverse set of repository
stakeholders, and collaborate with other departments that provide
technical resources in support of the CDR.

The Repository Librarian will directly support UNC faculty, staff, and
students with information, training, and assistance in identifying and
depositing digital materials appropriate to the CDR.  The Librarian will
collaborate daily with the repository application team responsible for
programming the CDR and will work with developer staff to design,
implement and train users on new features.

In coordination with staff from Digital Research Services and Technical
Services, the Repository Librarian will consult with depositors to
evaluate collections for preservation and access within the CDR, and
mapping user requirements and metadata to repository functionality and
standards.  The Librarian will also work directly with Library
colleagues on preservation policy management.

The Repository Librarian will serve on Library and campus committees,
participate in regional and national working groups related to
repository development and data curation, and represent the University
of North Carolina on issues related to data curation and scholarly
communication.

The Carolina Digital Repository (<https://cdr.lib.unc.edu/>) is a
service of the University Library to the entire UNC Chapel Hill campus,
providing collection, preservation, and discovery tools for faculty,
researchers, staff, and students.  The Carolina Digital Repository is
based on the Fedora Commons repository on iRODS.  The UNC Chapel Hill
Library is an active development partner in the Fedora4 project.
  
**Required**: ALA-accredited master's degree in library or information
science or advanced degree in Computer Science, Archival Studies, or a
related field. Coursework or experience leading to knowledge of the
principles and practices of data curation and long-term digital
preservation.  Knowledge of metadata formats, including Dublin Core,
MODS, METS, and data exchange protocols such as SWORD and OAI-PMH.
Excellent communication skills.  Demonstrated experience of managing
complex workflows and details.  Ability to work collaboratively with
programmers, faculty, and library staff.

**Preferred**: Demonstrated experience in the acquisition and management
of born-digital or digitized library, archival, or research materials. 
Experience in project management.  Demonstrated experience in
collaborating on software development projects. Experience with Agile
software development methodologies and tools.
