+++
nid = "6781"
jid = "00342"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-07-26 13:07"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6781"
title = "Data Services Librarian"
employer = "Reed College"
employerurl = "http://www.reed.edu/"
postdate = "2015-07-23"
archivedate = "2015-07-26"
draft = "false"
+++
Reed College, founded in 1908 is one of the country's leading liberal
arts and sciences colleges, providing an intellectually rigorous
undergraduate experience. Reed College is devoted to the intrinsic value
of intellectual pursuit and is governed by the highest standards of
scholarly practice, critical thought, and creativity. The goal of the
Reed education is that students learn and demonstrate rigor and
independence in their habits of thought, inquiry and expression. Reed
College values cultural diversity and intellectual pluralism as critical
components of academic excellence. In support of this endeavor, we are
seeking a **Data Services Librarian*
-  to join our staff.

The Data Services Librarian provides leadership, instruction, and
support in the discovery, use, and management of locally and externally
available data. This position will collaborate with librarians,
instructional technologists, and other staff to develop scalable and
sustainable data services to support student and faculty research at
Reed. We seek enthusiastic candidates who welcome the opportunity to
play a leadership role in providing library services in an intensely
academic community.
  
**Qualifications**

-   ALA-accredited master's degree in library and information science
    and minimum of one year of professional library experience or any
    combination of education and experience that provides the desired
    knowledge, abilities, and skills required to perform the job.
-   Experience with or knowledge of data management and curation.
-   Ability to provide reference and instruction services in an academic
    library environment.
-   A strong interest in undergraduate liberal arts education.

**Preferred Qualifications**

-   Competence with tools and methodologies for quantitative,
    data-driven research.
-   Familiarity with major national funding agencies data management
    protocol requirements and data archival procedures.
-   Knowledge of quantitative methods and data management and curation,
    including preservation, metadata, and data retrieval.
