+++
nid = "7261"
jid = "00428"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-09-27 05:36"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7261"
title = "Data Librarian"
employer = "Texas A&M University"
employerurl = "https://www.tamu.edu/"
postdate = "2016-09-22"
archivedate = "2016-09-27"
draft = "false"
+++
The Texas A&M University Libraries seeks to expand our team in the
Office of Scholarly Communications (OSC) by recruiting a data management
librarian to join our growing team. The OSC leads the Libraries' efforts
to explore alternative means of assessing scholarly output and impact;
increase recognition of Texas A&M University research; expand awareness
and acceptance of open access and open educational resources on campus;
support digital scholarship initiatives; strengthen author/faculty
rights; and support digital data services.  We often work through
partnership with other library units as well as national organizations
such as Duraspace and the Texas Digital Library to achieve our goals. 
This tenure-track academic appointment carries full faculty status and
responsibilities including research, publication, and service to meet
both the Libraries' and University's requirements for tenure and
promotion.

We seek to recruit an innovative librarian who can design and implement
systemic programs that couple outreach, education, tools, and policies
that effectively advance library initiatives in data-driven discovery at
Texas A&M.  Specifically, we seek applicants who can develop data
management services to support faculty preparing proposals or managing
research teams; support and manage Texas A&M's shared instance of the
emerging data repository being administered by the Texas Digital
Library; engage with the Libraries' metadata efforts to improve
discoverability and metadata quality for repository objects; partner
with key stakeholder groups within the Libraries and across campus in
developing the University's data management, curation, and preservation
strategies; and contribute to open source communities seeking to develop
and expand data repository functionality.  This position works closely
with application developers, a cross-unit metadata team, other library
units, and the Texas Digital Library.

Responsibilities

-   Partners with researchers, institutes, and centers to develop and
    sustain services for the management, curation, reuse, and
    accessibility of data produced at Texas A&M University.
-   Assists faculty in meeting funder requirements, including federal
    agencies, for providing public access to research results, including
    data.
-   Collaborates with OSC faculty and staff in developing data
    management services and workflows
-   Keeps abreast of trends and developments and actively pursues
    innovations in data management.
-   Develops and maintains data services web pages that describe campus
    and funding agency data policies, guidelines, best practices, and
    library services.
-   Develops and delivers training and instruction for credit courses,
    workshops, and other forums.
-   Engages in research, publication, and professional service as
    required of tenure-track/tenured faculty.
  
**Required Qualifications**

-   A Master's degree in Library and Information Science from an
    ALA-accredited institution (or international equivalent).
-   One year of relevant research data management and curation
    experience in an academic, scientific, or corporate setting.
-   Demonstrated knowledge of issues and technical challenges related to
    data curation and management.
-   Understanding of metadata standards in a research context.
-   Knowledge and usage of data documentation standards and tools.
-   Experience with one or more commonly used repository platforms.
-   Strong technical skills and technical problem-solving abilities. 
-   Excellent written and oral communication skills.
-   Demonstrated commitment to customer service.
-   Demonstrated ability to work collaboratively in teams with
    culturally- and technically-diverse backgrounds.

**Desired Qualifications**

-   Experience working in an academic library environment.
-   Experience with one or more commonly used data repository platforms.
-   Knowledge of scripting languages used with data-intensive research
    such as Python or R.
-   Knowledge of User Interface design.
-   Grant writing experience. 
-   Experience with project management.
-   Established record of publications and service.
