+++
nid = "7158"
jid = "00408"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-05-23 11:51"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7158"
title = "Data Services Librarian"
employer = "University of Northern British Columbia"
employerurl = "http://www.unbc.ca/"
postdate = "2016-05-20"
archivedate = "2016-05-23"
draft = "false"
+++
The Geoffrey R. Weller Library at the University of Northern British
Columbia (UNBC) invites applications from qualified candidates for the
position of Data Services Librarian. The incumbent will play a
leadership role in the provision of data services to the University of
Northern British Columbia community. This position is key in ensuring
that UNBC students and researchers have access to high quality data to
support their teaching, learning and research activities and that UNBC
researchers have support in managing their research data according to
international best practices and the growing expectations of funding
agencies. To meet these expectations, the Data Services Librarian will
be expected to maintain strong connections with the Canadian data
community and to collaborate with colleagues at other institutions.

Primary responsibilities:

-    Work with UNBC colleagues, and collaborate with colleagues at other
    institutions, to select, acquire, manage, and provide access to
    licensed, free, and researcher-generated numeric and geospatial data
    from across the disciplines.
-   Promote and enable data discovery and use amongst UNBC students and
    researchers through the development of online material, online and
    face-to-face presentations, and one-on-one consultations.
-   Serve as the University representative to Statistics Canada's Data
    Liberation Initiative (DLI), ICPSR, the DMTI Data Consortium, the
    ICIS Data Sharing Initiative, and other data-related organizations
    and consortiums.
-   Take the lead in developing research data management (RDM) services
    at UNBC in the context of regional and national initiatives (e.g.,
    Abacus, the CARL Portage Network).
-   Represent the Library on the RDC Steering Committee and work closely
    with the RDC Academic Director to promote the RDC amongst UNBC
    researchers.
  
Required qualifications:


-   ALA-accredited MLS or equivalent.
-   Minimum three years experience working in an academic library.
-   Ability to articulate a vision of the services, infrastructure, and
    skills required to support the data needs of academic researchers.
-   Understanding of trends in data management throughout the research
    lifecycle, including the creation, processing, analysis,
    preservation, access, and reuse of research data.
-   Demonstrated knowledge of, and keen interest in, data and
    statistical sources.
-   Aptitude for teaching in an academic environment and for developing
    instructional content and documentation.
-   Ability to work courteously and effectively with patrons and
    colleagues in a collaborative team environment.
-   Effective analytical, organizational, oral and written
    communications and interpersonal skills. 
-   Strong public service orientation.


Desired qualifications:


-   Experience with metadata standards related to the description,
    access, and preservation of numeric data (e.g., DDI).
-   Basic knowledge of, and interest in, web applications for sharing,
    preserving, citing, exploring, and analysing research data (e.g.,
    Dataverse). 
-   Applied knowledge of issues and technical challenges related to data
    management/curation, including format migration, preservation,
    metadata, and data retrieval and use issues.
-   Experience helping researchers with data management planning.
-   Basic understanding of, and experience with, data analysis software
    (e.g., SAS, SPSS, Stata, R, and ArcGIS).
-   Knowledge of, and interest in, data visualization tools (e.g.,
    Excel, Google Charts, Tableau, Google Fusion Tables). 
-   Demonstrated ability to successfully manage, or contribute
    substantially to, collaborative projects involving many
    stakeholders.
