+++
nid = "7195"
jid = "00420"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-08-09 11:44"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7195"
title = "Research Data Manager"
employer = "University of Salford"
employerurl = "http://www.salford.ac.uk/"
postdate = "2016-08-08"
archivedate = "2016-08-09"
draft = "false"
+++
The University Library is looking to appoint a highly motivated
individual to the position of Research Data Manager. The Research Data
Manager Service is currently a pilot service set up in response to
changing funder expectations.

You will be responsible for ongoing service development, delivery, and
analysis and evaluation of service usage and effectiveness. You will
implement the Research Data Management policy and manage wider service
roll out across the University building on the excellent progress
achieved so far.

You will work collaboratively to ensure the ongoing development and
delivery of high quality, innovative and cohesive research services
aligned with the strategic ambitions of the University. You will support
researchers, playing a vital role in supporting their management of data
and outputs throughout the research lifecycle. Through active advocacy
and outreach, you will work to embed RDM and scholarly communications
and digital scholarship processes into research practice.
  
The successful candidate must have excellent communication skills, be
confident in working with academic and professional services colleagues,
and able to manage your time and prioritize tasks effectively. S/he will
be flexible, innovative and evidence-based, with a passion for improving
the researcher experience and services at Salford. S/he will thrive in a
dynamic academic environment, adapting to new roles and working
practices as needs emerge, and contribute effectively and creatively to
the wider library and university research teams. S/he will be aware of
key research activity around research data management and the wider
scholarly communications landscape.

The role holder will represent the Library internally and externally on
RDM and scholarly and digital communications issues. A familiarity with
the current UK research environment in higher education is also
essential.
