+++
nid = "7191"
jid = "00416"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-07-20 12:32"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7191"
title = "Post Doc Social Sciences Data Curation Specialist"
employer = "University of Minnesota"
employerurl = "http://twin-cities.umn.edu/"
postdate = "2016-07-18"
archivedate = "2016-07-20"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Minnesota Libraries offer a two-year post-doctoral
position for a Social Sciences Data Curation Specialist.  The Specialist
will provide strategic direction for the University of Minnesota
Libraries in developing and sustaining new models of support for campus
research related to social science data curation, with an emphasis on
interdisciplinarity, collaboration on a global scale, and intensive use
of technology.  The Libraries seeks an energetic, creative, and
service-oriented post-doctoral fellow who will demonstrate innovative
thinking and a proactive approach to supporting research and scholarship
in social sciences and professional programs.   We seek an individual
who will be an active participant in collaborative projects and an
enthusiastic leader for programs that will shape the development and
sustainability of social sciences data curation and academic library
services.  This post-doctoral fellow will report to the Director of
Social Sciences and Professional Programs in the Libraries' Research and
Learning Division and closely collaborate with the Research Data
Services Lead.  This position will also work closely with research
support specialists throughout the Libraries' Research and Learning,
Health Sciences Libraries, and Data and Technology divisions.

The Social Sciences Data Curation Specialist has a unique opportunity to
build and strengthen the Libraries' role within social sciences data
curation on the University of Minnesota campus through working closely
with scholars--faculty and students--and those in support units across
the University, including the Liberal Arts Technologies and Innovation
Services (LATIS) team, the U-Spatial Data Analyst/Curator (geospatial
data), and the TerraPopulus team (an NSF DataNet project awarded to the
University of Minnesota focusing on the integration of census and land
use data).  While the focus of this position will be on social sciences
data as a whole, opportunities related to the specific research focus
for deeper scholarly engagement will be informed by the appointed
fellow's background, experience, and interest, as well as current
research support and collaboration opportunities.

The University Libraries are an integral part of campus life and
contribute significant resources and programs to the state, region, and
broader profession.  The University Libraries provide a supportive and
highly collaborative environment.  Expanded opportunities for innovation
and impact emerge through the Libraries' membership in the Association
of Research Libraries, the Committee on Institutional Cooperation (CIC)
Center for Library Initiatives, the Center for Research Libraries, the
Digital Library Federation, and the Coalition for Networked Information.
The Libraries are noted for innovative programs of process improvement,
new models for research support, and deep commitment to supporting the
full life cycle of knowledge.

**Key Responsibilities:**

-   Provide strategic leadership for the University of Minnesota
    Libraries in developing and sustaining support for social science
    data throughout its lifecycle.
-   Collect, manage, curate, provide access to and assist in the
    analysis of quantitative and qualitative research data related to
    social sciences and professional program academic departments;
    promote the Data Repository for the University of Minnesota (DRUM)
    and refer researchers to disciplinary repositories as appropriate.
-   Identify and propose research projects at the University of
    Minnesota involving data capture, analysis, management, and related
    issues that focus on social science data needs with potential for
    deeper scholarly engagement in specific areas related to the
    specialist's background.
-   Assess, promote, and/or develop methods for data discovery, to
    enhance the Libraries' delivery and discovery environment related to
    social sciences data.
-   Collaborate with data producers and repository contributors.
     Provide consultation services for a diverse population of
    researchers and liaisons, to enhance their capacity to manage,
    preserve and conduct new research using digital data collections.
-   Design and teach workshops and classes in a range of relevant areas,
    including data management, research design, and data processing and
    analysis technologies.
-   Work with the University Digital Conservancy, Data Repository for
    the University of Minnesota, and the Libraries' Data Management and
    Access Department on metadata creation and management.
-   Cultivate and sustain collaborative relationships with campus units
    and initiatives involved in data curation and development, including
    but not limited to: the College of Liberal Arts' Liberal Arts
    Technologies and Innovation Services, Minnesota Population Center,
    and U-Spatial.
  
**Required:**

-   PhD in a social sciences discipline, with degree completion within
    five years preceding the fellowship appointment (expected between
    June and September, 2016).
-   Proficiency/fluency with one or more of the major statistical
    software package (e.g., SAS, R, SPSS, STATA) and/or qualitative
    technologies (e.g., NVivo, Atlas.ti) commonly encountered in data
    curation.
-   Excellent communication, presentation and interpersonal skills.
-   Ability to work with colleagues in a collaborative and distributed
    service environment.
-   Demonstrated creativity, initiative, self-direction, and innovative
    thinking.
-   Strong service orientation.

**Preferred:**

-   Experience with data curation in his or her own research.
-   Experience with academic project planning or consultative services.
-   Experience with teaching/instruction in higher education.
-   Familiarity with sensitive research data and an understanding of
    best practices for de-identification.
-   Demonstrated involvement in professional activities, including
    presentations and publications.
