+++
nid = "7186"
jid = "00412"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-07-01 11:19"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7186"
title = "Library Data Analyst"
employer = "University of Nevada Las Vegas"
employerurl = "http://www.unlv.edu/"
postdate = "2016-06-29"
archivedate = "2016-07-01"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Nevada, Las Vegas invites applications for a Library
Data Analyst, SN 16388

As a strong partner in student learning, University Libraries fosters
critical thinking and lifelong learning with innovative services,
entrepreneurial staff, outstanding digital collections, up-to-date
technology and internationally renowned Special Collections, including
two research centers: the Center for Gaming Research and the Oral
History Research Center. University Libraries has over 120 experienced
faculty librarians and staff and is comprised of Lied Library (a 302,000
square foot facility opened in 2001) and three branch libraries. We are
a gateway to more than 20,000 electronic journals and 1.7 million books,
including ebooks. We welcome individuals with diverse backgrounds to
join our growing organization of over 120 experienced faculty librarians
and staff members committed to a culture of continuous improvement as we
contribute to the teaching, learning, research, and creative endeavors
at one of the nation's fastest growing universities.

This position is located within the Libraries Assessment Unit. The
Assessment Unit's function is to foster a culture of continuous
improvement and evidence-based decision making. It collects, analyzes,
and distributes data; identifies trends as shown through data; and works
to demonstrate the value and impact of the library in a variety of ways,
and in conjunction with all library departments. Tableau and Excel are
the primary analysis tools utilized in the Assessment Unit, with
dashboards shared throughout the Libraries in a Tableau Server
environment.

**ROLE of the POSITION**
Under the supervision of the Head of Planning and Assessment, the
analyst performs regular tasks and special projects involving data
collection, extraction, analysis, and reporting; database management;
and administration of large-scale assessments. Duties include preparing
statistical reports for various outside agencies, such as the
Association of College and Research Libraries and the National Center
for Educational Statistics/Department of Education, as well as for
university administrators. With the Head of Planning and Assessment,
this position collaborates with other library departments to collect
data and analyze evidence in areas such as use of collections and
services; user needs and expectations; facility use; and assessment of
student learning outcomes. The primary purpose of this position is to
distribute sound, accurate, timely, and complete data, with engaging
visuals, to the library's administrators or others for informed
decision-making. Data collection and analysis are to be completed within
the context of the Libraries' evaluation framework and strategic plan
with strong emphasis upon accuracy, evaluation, and dissemination of
data through narrative and/or visual means.
  
**Required:*
-  A master's degree in a relevant discipline; two or more
years of related professional experience; advanced Microsoft Excel
skills; ability to work on multiple projects simultaneously; ability to
work in a collaborative environment; ability to balance technical
knowledge with client input; excellent oral and written communication
skills, including the ability to translate statistical concepts into
layman's terms; and willingness to continually learn and stay abreast
of developments in assessment in libraries and more broadly in higher
education.

**Preferred:*
-  Knowledge and experience with research design and
qualitative/quantitative analysis techniques; experience with data
collection techniques, such as focus groups and survey design;
experience with Tableau or other data visualization software, experience
with quantitative software (SPSS, R, or SAS) and/or qualitative analysis
software.
