+++
nid = "7268"
jid = "00435"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-10-04 13:28"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7268"
title = "Research & Instructional Technologist"
employer = "Wellesley College"
employerurl = "http://www.wellesley.edu/"
postdate = "2016-10-03"
archivedate = "2016-10-04"
draft = "false"
+++
The Research and Instruction Technologist for Data and [GIS]{.caps}
provides technical and pedagogical support for the growing data-driven
research and statistical and geospatial instruction at Wellesley
College. Principal tasks will center on assisting faculty and students
across natural science, social science, and humanities disciplines, in
finding, creating, and analyzing a wide variety of data for classroom
assignments and research projects.
 
This position provides technical support for software such as Stata,
[SPSS]{.caps}, R, [JMP]{.caps}, ArcGIS, and Excel through individual
consultations, classroom instruction, and technical workshops. As a
member of the Scholarly Innovations team, this position thinks
strategically about the larger use of data and mapping at the college,
exploring relationships with other digital scholarship initiatives and
expanding methods for faculty and student research across disciplines.
 
This position collaborates closely with faculty, librarian and
technologist colleagues across Library and Technology Services, the
Director of the Quantitative Analysis Institute, and other campus
partners to develop and lead new initiatives for data analysis and
mapping, and to create an integrated support model for the wide range of
academic software and research/teaching needs currently and potentially
in use across campus.
  
Minimum Requirements:

-   Appropriate degree (B.S./B.A.) and 3-5 years of experience in a
    related field.
-   Substantial experience with statistical/quantitative data analysis.
-   Substantial experience in at least one major statistical software
    application in use at Wellesley ([SPSS]{.caps}, Stata, R,
    [JMP]{.caps}) or Arc [GIS]{.caps} as well as Microsoft Excel.
-   Willingness and ability to become proficient in other Wellesley
    supported statistical and mapping tools.
-   Experience teaching and/or supporting users with a wide range of
    skill in quantitative analysis and/or mapping.
-   Excellent interpersonal and communication skills.
-   Applicants must be able to work well as part of a team and work
    effectively in a culturally diverse environment.

Preferred: 

-   Advanced degree in a data driven discipline
-   Experience working with/performing data analysis on commonly used
    numeric data resources (e.g., U.S. Census data, [ICPSR]{.caps},
    microdata from major national/international surveys, statistical
    databases such as "International Financial Statistics", etc.).
-   Experience supporting the use of [GIS]{.caps} across a variety of
    academic disciplines
-   Experience in the analysis of qualitative data
