+++
nid = "7284"
jid = "00450"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-12-23 10:39"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7284"
title = "Librarian, Political Science, Global Affairs and Government Information"
employer = "Yale University"
employerurl = "http://www.yale.edu/"
postdate = "2016-12-23"
archivedate = "2016-12-23"
draft = "false"
+++
[Reporting to the Director of Research Support and Outreach Programs at
the Center for Science and Social Science Information, this position
facilitates access to the services and collections of a complex,
multifaceted research/academic library through direct contact with
researchers and the development and promotion of services and
collections. The Librarian for Political Science, Global Affairs, and
Government Information is a member of the CSSSI team and participates in
Yale University Library programs and committees.

The incumbent provides research support to students and faculty in the
Political Science department and the Jackson Institute for Global
Affairs through research consultations, course-integrated instruction,
and other modes. As the subject specialist for government information,
provides research support and instruction to Yale students and faculty
across the campus and works closely with library colleagues to support
teaching, learning, and research using government information. Provides
research consultations and instruction in the discovery, use, and
management of text and data. Supports research and raises awareness of
resources through outreach efforts such as department-based office
hours, social media, and workshops. Creates and maintains research
guides and other research support tools. Collaborates with librarians,
archivists, GIS specialists, and StatLab specialists to support research
and teaching.

Selects political science, public policy, global affairs, and government
information materials in all formats. Works closely with the CSSSI
Director of Collection Management, Technical Services, and Access
Services to review and acquire materials that are relevant to research
and teaching needs. Responsible for managing collections funds,
evaluating approval plans, and maintaining collection development
statements in assigned subject areas.

Manages the Yale Library's participation in government documents
depository programs (U.S. federal, Canada federal, United Nations,
European Union, and Food & Agriculture Organization) and serves as
liaison to the agencies that administer these programs. Develops
depository collections to meet Yale research and teaching needs. Advises
and informs Yale Library colleagues, including the Director of
Collection Development, on trends and issues related to government
information.

Participates in research and instruction program planning and
implementation. Participates in service program development and outreach
for the CSSSI. Participates in Yale Library planning, committees, and
task forces, and engages in campus, regional, and national professional
organizations and collaborative activities. Participates in professional
activities outside of Yale and monitors developments and best practices
elsewhere to help ensure the excellence of Yale's research support
services and collections.]{.TEXT}

[Essential Duties:]{.Fieldlabel}

1.  [[Provides research support to students and faculty in academic
    departments, schools, and research centers through consultations,
    instruction sessions, and in-person and virtual reference services.
    Supports research and raises awareness of information resources
    through outreach efforts such as department-based office hours,
    blogs, RSS feeds, mailing list messages, and workshops.
    ]{.TEXT}]{.Fieldlabel}
2.  [[Creates and maintains online guides and other research support
    tools. Collaborates with librarians, GIS specialists, archivists and
    other providers of information resources to support research and
    teaching. ]{.TEXT}]{.Fieldlabel}
3.  [[Develops library collections in all formats. Works closely with
    the Director of Collection Development, collection, acquisitions and
    cataloging librarians, and staff on acquiring and receiving
    resources in all formats (print, databases, datasets, images, a/v,
    etc.) and preparing them for availability to users.
    ]{.TEXT}]{.Fieldlabel}
4.  [[Participates in departmental library research support and
    collections program planning. ]{.TEXT}]{.Fieldlabel}
5.  [[Participates in library system-wide planning, committees, and work
    groups, and engages in campus, regional and national professional
    organizations and collaborative activities. Monitors developments
    and best practices elsewhere to help ensure the excellence of Yale's
    collections and research support services. ]{.TEXT}]{.Fieldlabel}
6.  [[May be required to assist with disaster recovery efforts.
    ]{.TEXT}]{.Fieldlabel}
7.  [[May perform other duties as assigned.]{.TEXT}]{.Fieldlabel}
  
Required:

1.  [Master's degree from an ALA-accredited library school. In selected
    instances, a post-graduate degree in a related discipline may be
    required or substituted for a master's degree in library science.
    ]{.TEXT}
2.  [Demonstrated excellent oral, written, and interpersonal
    communications and analytical ability. ]{.TEXT}
3.  [Demonstrated record of designing projects and bringing them to a
    conclusion in a timely fashion. ]{.TEXT}
4.  [Experience working collegially and cooperatively within and across
    organizations. ]{.TEXT}
5.  [Experience working collaboratively and independently with varied
    groups within a complex organization and rapidly changing, team
    environment. Yale University assigns ranks to librarian positions
    based on a combination of professional experience and
    accomplishments (see range assigned to this description as noted in
    the posting position title). Librarian ranking information can be
    found at:
    http://www.library.yale.edu/about/departments/lhr/rank.html]{.TEXT}
6.  [[A minimum of two years of professional experience.]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}
7.  [[[Demonstrated excellence in the provision of research support
    services, preferably in an academic setting.  Familiarity with
    social science issues and resources.]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}
8.  [[[[Demonstrated excellent oral, written, and interpersonal
    communications and analytical ability. Demonstrated ability in
    working collegially and cooperatively within and across
    organizations.]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}
9.  [[[[[Demonstrated ability in designing projects and bringing them to
    a conclusion in a timely
    fashion.]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}
10. [[[[[[Demonstrated ability in working collaboratively and
    independently with varied groups within a complex organization and a
    rapidly changing team
    environment.]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}

[Desired:]{.TEXT}

-   [[Undergraduate and/or advanced degree in a social
    science.]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}[[]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}
-   [[Demonstrated knowledge of government information resources.
    ]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}[[]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}[[]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}
-   [[Experience with numeric and/or geospatial data to support
    teaching, learning, and research.
    ]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}[[]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}[[]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}
-   [[Reading knowledge of one or more Western European languages.
    ]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}[[]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}[[]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}
-   [[Experience with collection development in an academic
    environment.]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}
