+++
nid = "7287"
jid = "00448"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-12-23 10:52"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7287"
title = "Data and Visualization"
employer = "Boston College"
employerurl = "http://www.bc.edu/"
postdate = "2016-12-16"
archivedate = "2016-12-23"
draft = "false"
+++
O'Neill Library is seeking an innovative and collaborative individual
focused on data and visualization services to contribute to a growing
digital initiatives team. Working with Assessment and as part of a
Digital Scholarship team in support of digital teaching and research,
the Data and Visualization Librarian will play a central role in
the development and provision of Library services for manipulation,
visualization and management of qualitative and quantitative datasets.
The successful candidate will be knowledgeable in emerging trends,
tools, technologies, and practices supporting data and visualization in
research and will have hands-on experience with key tools in the field.
  
Minimum Qualifications:

-   Master's degree in library or information science from an
    ALA-accredited institution or a related field.
-   Relevant and demonstrable academic, research, or professional
    experience with data cleaning and related tools, such as OpenRefine.
-   Demonstrable academic or professional experience with creating
    visualizations, including experience with data visualization tools,
    software and libraries, such as Tableau and/or D3.js.
-   Knowledge of best practices for data and visualization topics.

Preferred Qualifications:

-   Basic knowledge of geospatial data and technologies, including web
    mapping and Geographic Information Systems.Experience with data
    mining and/or text mining.
-   Experience with a programming language such a Python. Experience
    with statistical packages such as R, STATA, SPSS, or SAS.
-   Experience with SQL.
-   Advanced degree in a data intensive research field, such a
    statistics or informatics, or certification in a data science
    related field.
-   Experience working in an academic library setting.
