+++
nid = "7276"
jid = "00439"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-11-08 06:48"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7276"
title = "Digital Atlanta Fellowship/CLIR Postdoctoral Fellowship "
employer = "Georgia State University"
employerurl = "http://www.gsu.edu/"
postdate = "2016-11-03"
archivedate = "2016-11-08"
draft = "false"
+++
The Digital Atlanta Fellowship/CLIR Postdoctoral Fellowship (2017-2019)
offers a recent graduate from a Ph.D. program a two-year visiting
appointment at Georgia State University Library, with opportunities to
advance community-based digital scholarship, explore new forms of
innovative pedagogy, and engage with university and civic partners in
the Atlanta area.

Hosted by Georgia State University Library at the downtown campus, the
Fellow's research and work explores certain aspects of cities, with a
distinct focus on Atlanta. The work is primarily project-based and may
be related to any discipline(s). The Fellow may choose to contribute to
established projects with regional partners (see examples below) and/or
develop new projects. Projects may involve digital resource production,
web development, GIS and data services, online exhibit design, and
instructional design, or a combination of areas within the library and
other centers and departments on campus. The successful Fellow will
develop expertise in digital applications that foster new and effective
ways to enhance content and contribute to platforms in support of
community and place-based scholarship and pedagogy. The ideal Fellow is
open to experimentation, expanding the research library's role, and
exploring new collaborations beyond the library that further digital
scholarship and new forms of publishing. The Fellow reports to the
Associate Dean, Public Services, who also serves as mentor.

The Digital Atlanta Fellowship is bolstered by a strong partnership of
teachers, scholars, librarians, and civic leaders in Atlanta who are
committed to new and innovative ways to communicate and collaborate, to
study, and to learn about their city. The successful Fellow is expected
to engage with the Georgia State University community and with regional
partners to be determined, including Georgia Tech, Emory University, the
Atlanta-Fulton Public Library System, Atlanta University Center, Atlanta
History Center, Atlanta Regional Commission, and others.
  
**Required**

-   An awarded Ph.D. after January 1, 2012 in the social sciences,
    humanities, computer science, library/information science, or
    related discipline. (If a Ph.D. has not yet been awarded, all work
    toward the degree including dissertation defense and final
    dissertation editing must be completed before starting the
    fellowship.)
-   Demonstrated experience working on digital scholarship projects
-   Knowledge of the wide array of research tools and technologies in
    digital scholarship (e.g., digitization, data visualization,
    mapping, image analysis, text mining, etc.)
-   Strong ability to work collaboratively with multiple stakeholders
-   Strong ability to work across disciplines and build
    transdisciplinary connections
-   Demonstrated ability to articulate the opportunities of digital
    scholarship to scholars, students, and community members
-   Excellent technical skills and ability to learn new ones
-   Excellent communication, presentation, and interpersonal skills
-   Must be legally permitted to work in the United States from
    2017-2019.

**Preferred**

-   Experience with web design
-   Experience with digital scholarship platforms (e.g. Fedora, Omeka,
    Scalar, DH Press, etc.)
-   Digital project management experience
-   Knowledge of open scholarship trends, resources, and applications.
-   Experience with grant writing
