+++
nid = "7263"
jid = "00430"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-09-27 05:46"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7263"
title = "Visualization Specialist "
employer = "Harvard College Library"
employerurl = "http://hcl.harvard.edu/"
postdate = "2016-09-23"
archivedate = "2016-09-27"
draft = "false"
+++
Reporting to the Head, Social Sciences and Visualization in the unit for
Maps, Media, Data and Government Information, the Visualization
Specialist works with staff and faculty to identify hardware and
software needs, and to develop scalable, sustainable practices related
to data visualization services. This position designs and delivers
workshops and training sessions on data visualization tools and methods,
and develops a range of instructional materials to support library users
with data visualization needs in the Social Sciences and Humanities.  

The Visualization Specialist will coordinate responsibilities with other
unit staff and may supervise student employees.

**Duties and Responsibilities:**

-   Advises, consults, instructs, and serves as technical lead with data
    visualization projects with library, faculty teaching, and courses
    where students are using data.  
-   Identifies, evaluates and recommends new and emerging digital
    research tools for the Libraries and Harvard research community.
-   Develops and supports visualization services in response to current
    trends, teaching and learning--especially as it intersects with
    Library collections and programs.
-   Collaborates in developing ideas and concepts effectively across
    diverse interdisciplinary audiences and serves as a point person for
    data visualization and analysis efforts in the Libraries and is
    attuned to both the quantitative and qualitative uses with datasets.
    Understands user needs for disseminating their visualizations as
    either static objects for print publications or interactive online
    objects to engage with.
-   Develops relationships with campus units supporting digital
    research, including the Center for Government and International
    Studies, Institute for Quantitative Social Sciences, and Harvard
    Library Central Services, and academic departments engaged in data
    analysis and visualization.
-   Develops, collects, and curates exemplar data sets from multiple
    fields to be used in visualization workshops and training materials
  
Basic:

-   ALA-accredited master's degree in Library or Information
    Science ***OR*** advanced degree in Social Sciences, Psychology,
    Design, Informatics, Statistics, or Humanities.
-   Minimum of 3 years experience in working with data analysis and
    visualization in an academic setting.
-   Demonstrated experience with data visualization tools and
    programming libraries.
-   Proficiency with at least one programming language (such as
    Python and R).
-   Ability to use a variety of tools to extract and manipulate data
    from various sources (such as relational databases, XML, web
    services and APIs).
-   Demonstrated technical expertise and experience using technology to
    support research and teaching.
-   Experience providing instruction or research consultations.
-   Strong communication and interpersonal skills.
-   Strong commitment to public service.

Additional:

-   Background working in a large academic community.
-   Experience supporting data analysis and visualization in a research
    setting.
-   Experience working effectively with a team to plan and complete
    projects.
-   Proficiency using tools and programming libraries to support text
    analysis.
-   Familiarity with geospatial technology.
-   Experience identifying and recommending new tools, technologies, and
    online delivery of visualizations.
-   Graphic design skills and proficiency using relevant software.
