+++
nid = "7278"
jid = "00441"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-11-08 07:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7278"
title = "Associate Director , National Data Archive on Child Abuse and Neglect"
employer = "Cornell University"
employerurl = "http://www.cornell.edu/"
postdate = "2016-11-07"
archivedate = "2016-11-08"
draft = "false"
+++
The mission of the College of Human Ecology is to improve lives by
exploring and shaping human connections to natural, social, and built
environments. Faculty, students, and staff explore the human dimensions
of social and natural sciences, design, nutrition and health, public
policy, society, family, community, and other realms-all in pursuit of
knowledge to make the world a better place. Using Cornell's
far-reaching extension network and the college's translational research
methods, we deliver our findings directly to communities and families,
ensuring that our work reaches those who need it most.

The College is currently seeking an Associate Director for the National
Data Archive on Child Abuse and Neglect (NDACAN). This individual will
report to co-directors of the archive and manage the contract with the
U.S. Department of Health and Human. Key responsibilities include:
overseeing daily operations of NDACAN; working with data contributors
and possible data contributors, data users, and other individuals and
agencies outside the University; managing personnel, finances, and
grants related to the data held in NDACAN; seeking ways to generate
greater access to the NDACAN holdings; and assisting the co-directors in
strategic planning and development and in presenting scholarly work in
academic journals and at national meetings utilizing NDACAN resources.
In addition, this Associate Director will work with project directors to
explore and test innovations in data archiving to increase effectiveness
and efficiency of archive operations. Will lead the data archive's
quality assurance and evaluation efforts.
  
**Required:*
-  The applicant should have extensive experience in research
settings, experience in managing data collections and supporting staff
maintaining such collections, as well as supporting users of archived
data.  Experience with project management is also necessary -- such as
proposal writing, hiring and supervising staff in terms of meeting
project deliverables and deadlines, managing budgets, and meeting
reporting requirements of funders. The applicant should be very
organized and [detail-oriented. ]{.GI0HEAYDGAO} Strong verbal and
written communication skills, as well as team leadership skills, are
required for this position. Minimum qualification includes master's
degree in the social sciences or related field, with 5 years of
experience in comparable positions, or equivalent. 

**Preferred:**  Ph.D. preferred.  Advanced skills related to data
management and analysis. Specific skills with coding within software
packages such as SPSS, SAS, STATA, R, SQL. Experience managing federal
contracts, particularly from HHS agencies.  Knowledge and experience
concerning data archiving best practices.
