+++
nid = "6967"
jid = "00397"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-03-14 09:34"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6967"
title = "Data Informationist"
employer = "Johns Hopkins University, School of Medicine Campus"
employerurl = "http://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/"
postdate = "2016-03-14"
archivedate = "2016-03-14"
draft = "false"
+++
The William H. Welch Medical Library seeks a collaborative, energetic,
and service-oriented Data Informationist to join an established team of
information professionals that serves the faculty, staff and students of
the Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions (JHMI). The Data Informationist
will build an evolving set of data services to meet the needs of
clinical, public health and basic science researchers across the
research data lifecycle from its creation to preservation. S/he will
investigate research practices related to data creation, use,
organization, management and storage across the Schools of Medicine,
Nursing and Public Health (SOM, SON and SPH). S/he will also participate
in the institution's effort to measure the impact of research by
Hopkins scholars. The Data Informationist position reports to the
Associate Director for Clinical Informationist Services.

This position will be responsible for, but not limited to, the following
duties:

Administer consultation services for data-related issues and methods for
acquiring and using restricted- use and protected health information
(PHI) in computing systems/environments needed for this data. Select and
apply a variety of metadata practices and standards related to the
description, access and preservation of existing external medical and
health-related digital data. Interface with various groups involved in
data science, such as the Institute for Clinical and Translational
Research (ICTR) and the Center for Data Analysis, and collaborate with
other University-wide data interest groups to promote awareness of data
resources, products and services among faculty and students through
outreach and embedded activities. Identify and search external data sets
and troubleshoot formatting issues related to them; advise on research
data formats; and recommend methods to facilitate data transfer into
statistical packages. Manage data-intensive collaborations in varied
research data management activities. Develop and lead instructional
sessions about the use of various data resources and tools, and best
practices for data access, collection, management, security and
preservation with a targeted focus on medical and health-related data.
Assess and recommend data hardware and software products and
data-centric databases for purchase. Participate on library-wide
committees, and serve as Welch Library’s official representative to
ICPSR. Develop and maintain awareness of data-centered strategies and
technologies across the health sciences, attend relevant conferences and
workshops for his/her continuing professional development.
  
ALA-accredited Master's degree in the Library/Information Sciences, or
an advanced graduate degree in a related field, such as informatics,
data science, health sciences, or statistics. Minimum of three years
professional experience working with large research datasets and/or
familiarity with major data resources such as ICPSR, healthdata.gov,
hospital information systems, Medicare claims data, and the U.S. Census
Bureau. Knowledge and experience with research methodologies,
quantitative and qualitative data and statistical software packages such
as SAS, Stata, R, SPSS, ArcGIS, including expertise with at least one of
these or similar programs. Knowledge and experience with the lifecycle
of research data and data management plan requirements (NIH, NSF, etc.).
Strong, demonstrated service orientation with abilities to work
effectively in a collaborative team environment. Demonstrated excellent
analytical and organizational skills, verbal and written communications
and interpersonal skills. Understanding of and experience with relevant
metadata practices and standards such as DDI, SDMX, OASIS, Dublin Core,
OAI-PMH, and discipline-specific metadata standards, such as LOINC,
ICD-10, SNOMED.

Preferred Qualifications:

A second advanced degree in a relevant discipline in informatics, data
science, health sciences, or statistics. Understanding of research
process used in a range of disciplines, especially in the health
sciences with particular focus on the research lifecycle of data.
Familiarity with data management requirements of federal agencies (NIH,
NSF, etc.). Experience teaching workshops of a technical nature. Project
management experience; demonstrated ability to design, lead, and
complete a project within scope.
