+++
nid = "7184"
jid = "00409"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-06-17 05:42"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7184"
title = "Research Data Management Librarian"
employer = "Ruth Lilly Medical Library, Indiana University School of Medicine"
employerurl = "http://library.medicine.iu.edu"
postdate = "2016-06-03"
archivedate = "2016-06-17"
draft = "false"
+++
[Based in vibrant Indianapolis, IN, t]{.TextRun .SCX92117772}[he Ruth
Lilly Medical Library seeks a dynamic, collaborative, and talented
librarian to ]{.TextRun .SCX92117772}[consult with faculty, students,
and other researchers on data management planning and data curation
activities; develop instructional programming and documentation to
support scholars in this area; and work with colleagues in University
Information Technology Services]{.TextRun .SCX92117772}[, ]{.TextRun
.SCX92117772}[the Indiana Clinical and Translational Sciences
Institute]{.TextRun .SCX92117772}[,]{.TextRun .SCX92117772}[ University
Library,]{.TextRun .SCX92117772}[ and ]{.TextRun
.SCX92117772}[the ]{.TextRun .SCX92117772}[[Regenstrief]{.SpellingError
.SCX92117772}]{.TextRun .SCX92117772}[ ]{.TextRun
.SCX92117772}[Institute ]{.TextRun .SCX92117772}[to adapt, design, and
develop tools and repository services for storing and sharing research
data. The successful candidate will demonstrate a clear vision of the
services, infrastructure, and skills required to provide high quality
assistance and tools to ]{.TextRun .SCX92117772}[Indiana School of
Medicine (IUSM)]{.TextRun .SCX92117772}[ ]{.TextRun
.SCX92117772}[researchers.
]{.TextRun .SCX92117772}

[**Responsibilities:**]{.TextRun .SCX92117772}

Data Services

-   Serve as a library consultant to IUSM faculty, researchers and
    project teams on the development of data management plans for grant
    applications and research data stewardship, including serving as a
    collaborative team member for data management throughout the
    research process. 
-   Contribute to university- and campus-wide initiatives to develop
    policies, services, and infrastructure that enable faculty and
    students to preserve, and share, and curate their research data. 
-   Develop, enhance, deliver, and assess research data workflows for
    IUSM faculty, students and staff. 
-   Provide and contribute to research data management curriculum and
    course development, training and workshops for IUSM students,
    faculty, and staff in data management best practices and standards,
    and available IU services. 
-   Collaborate with the University Library Center for Digital
    Scholarship in the development of research data sharing and
    curation services related to the
    institutional data repository, DataWorks. 
-   Coordinate ongoing training and support for library staff
    on research data management fundamentals and services to further
    incorporate data management, citation, and preservation into library
    services. 
-   Track and engage with current tools and methodologies for
    computationally centered, data-driven research (data mining,
    visualization, text mining, etc.). 
-   Actively advocate, and promote the value of research data services
    within the institution. 

Collaboration

-   Cultivates partnerships and collaborates with university faculty on
    projects including teaching, grants, manuscripts, paper or poster
    presentations
-   Contributes to the overall development and innovation of the library
    and the profession by participating in library, campus, university,
    state, regional or national meetings, committees, workgroups and
    task forces or by representing the library on consortia.
-   Develops a full network of contacts within assigned liaison areas
    (departments/units, institutes, and centers) and anticipates and
    meets their information needs. 
-   Teaches orientation sessions, course-integrated instruction and
    workshops for library clientele. 

Scholarly/Professional

-   Maintains current knowledge of the trends and issues in higher
    education, scholarly communication, research practice and health
    care. 
-   Pursues an active and ongoing career plan in the areas of job
    performance, professional development/research support and service.
    Standards are outlined in the IUPUI Promotion & Tenure
    Guidelines: <http://academicaffairs.iupui.edu/PromotionTenure/IUPUI-Guidelines/Resources>. 
-   Designs and implements a plan for continuing education, continuing
    professional development and actively contributes to the development
    of health sciences librarianship through scholarly and service
    activities. Participates on other projects and initiatives as
    assigned. 
  
**Required:** 

-   ALA-accredited Master's degree or advanced degree in relevant field.
-   Relevant experience in providing research data services to health
    sciences researchers. 
-   Demonstrated knowledge of data management and curation practices.
-   Ability to maintain knowledge on a broad range
    of research data topics, including data management practices, data
    policies, sharing and reuse, data citation, and stewardship. 
-   Familiarity with digital repository systems, such as Fedora/Hydra,
    DSpace, Islandora, Archivematica, or others.
-   Ability to work in a collegial, collaborative work environment and
    maintain positive professional working relationships with faculty
    members, supervisor, and peers. 
-   Ability to advise faculty on metadata requirements related to data
    requirements. 
-   Record of scholarship, teaching, and/or active membership in a
    professional organization. 

 

**Preferred: **

-   Experience that includes cross-disciplinary subject knowledge and a
    research background in data management in one or more areas of
    science or humanities. 
-   Background in managing data as a lead for a lab or disciplinary
    project that generates large amounts of data for preservation,
    publication or re-use.
-   Coursework or certification in research data management,
    curation, or digital preservation
