+++
nid = "7270"
jid = "00437"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-10-14 05:37"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7270"
title = "Director, Research Support Services "
employer = "Stanford University"
employerurl = "http://stanford.edu/"
postdate = "2016-10-12"
archivedate = "2016-10-14"
draft = "false"
+++
Stanford University Graduate School of Business seeks a proven leader
for the position of Director of Research Support Services.  Reporting to
the Assistant Dean, Executive Director of the Centers and Initiatives
for Research, Curriculum & Learning Experiences (CIRCLE), the Director
of Research will oversee and administer a broad range of support
resources to facilitate and accelerate the research activities of the
GSB faculty.  S/he will direct a high-performing team of research
consultants and domain specialists who deliver these services.

 The current portfolio of research support services includes:

-    Automated collection of unique research datasets from public
    sources,
-   Transformation of poorly structured source data into model-ready
    tables,
-   Statistical programming and writing original algorithms,
-   Leveraging parallel computing opportunities,
-   Leveraging Big Data technologies to analyze large scale datasets,
-   Collaborating with the Behavioral Lab to create customized online
    experiments and surveys,
-   Managing relationships and projects with external partners who
    assist in original dataset creation, and
-   Negotiating directly with owners of proprietary business data to
    enter into collaborative data sharing agreements with GSB
    researchers.

As faculty research needs continue to evolve, the Director will also
identify and develop strategies for new service offerings.

The Director of Research Support Services will be responsible for
management of both technical and nontechnical staff for the delivery of
research support. The team will consist of both permanent and contract
staff, changing in composition according to faculty needs.  Team members
will be deployed to specific faculty projects for limited terms, as
directed by the Academic Senior Associate Deans in collaboration with
the Assistant Dean of the Centers.

The ideal candidate will possess a record of success in leading teams
and initiatives in an academic environment.  S/he must demonstrate an
understanding of the academic research process in the social sciences. 
The ideal candidate will also be capable of developing effective
professional relationships with faculty, alumni, staff, and business
leaders.  The candidate's record should show successful external
engagement and proven ability to build alliances with other campus
units; strong commitment to providing effective 'customer' service;
excellent interpersonal skills encompassing the ability to work
collegially as a member of a team; strong technical skills and an
ability to direct a team of technical staff; strong analytical and
organizational skills; and, excellent written and oral communication
skills.

 **CORE DUTIES**

-   Provide leadership direction to staff in the Research Support
    Services program area, and oversee subordinate staff with program
    responsibility.
-   Design, develop, and oversee implementation of the most complex
    programs.
-   Devise and implement vision, strategy, goals, and resource
    development in consultation with an Executive Director and Senior
    Associate Deans.
-   Assess Research Support Services program efficacy.
-   Shape development of research support programs.
-   Provide guidance to Research Support and Research Initiatives staff.
-   Define the overall activities of Research Support Services programs,
    allocate appropriate staffing and other resources to achieve
    objectives. Develop and direct related policy. Provide strategic and
    financial advice to faculty director and/or senior management
-   Develop, maintain, and control the financial budget related to
    Research Support Services; shape financial strategy and long-range
    financial planning
  
**Education & Experience:**

Advanced degree or combination of relevant education, training, and/or
experience. Typically five or more years of relevant experience in area
of specialization and five or more years relevant experience managing
staff. Experience managing a budget and developing financial plans,
program partnerships, and/or funding sources.

**Knowledge, Skills and Abilities:**

-   Ability to develop program partnerships.
-   Advanced oral, written and analytical skills exhibiting fluency in
    area of specialization.
-   Excellent leadership skills.
-   Ability to manage budgets and develop financial plans

**Preferred Knowledge, Skills and Abilities**

-   Academic degree in appropriate scientific field, including social
    science
-   Proven understanding of academic research as practiced at top
    universities
-   Demonstrated success managing analytical work groups in an academic
    environment
-   Proven ability to interact effectively with external business
    leaders and professionals
-   Expertise in data collection and file building, including data
    mining and cloud-based activity
-   Expertise in data analysis including statistical methods and
    software
-   Demonstrated proficiency in the use of a broad range of software and
    computer systems
-   Excellent written and verbal communication skills and high standards
    of accuracy
-   Strong organizational, time, and project management skills
-   Demonstrated administrative support skills, including the ability to
    identify proactively issues, make suggestions for improvement, and
    meet deadlines with a minimal amount of supervision
-   Demonstrated skills in managing cross-organizational collaborations,
    especially in an academic environment
-   Consistently sound judgment, tact, and diplomacy in interactions
    with a diverse group of individuals, including senior managers,
    colleagues, and volunteers
-   Orientation toward providing outstanding customer service
-   Familiarity with Stanford University's computer systems
