+++
nid = "6946"
jid = "00395"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-02-29 15:25"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6946"
title = "Data Scientist (2 positions open)"
employer = "UK Data Service"
employerurl = "https://www.ukdataservice.ac.uk/"
postdate = "2016-02-29"
archivedate = "2016-02-29"
draft = "false"
+++
Big Data Network Support Data Scientist works within the Big Data
Network Support directorate of the UK Data Service. This section
provides support for working with new and novel forms of data and it
coordinate activities, provided expertise and develops best practice. It
engages with the wider Big Data investments to ensure that big data and
services are comprehensible to the research community. The post holder
will be responsible for developing big data models and building out some
useful, scalable datasets and systems that can start to be visualised
and interrogated for insights by the UK Data Service user community.

The main duties of the post will include:

-   Conceive, develop and deliver scalable and sustainable methods,
    algorithms and approaches that generate insight from social science
    big data.
-   Build a portfolio of deliverables using our Hadoop Distributed File
    System computing infrastructure both on premises and in the cloud
    that add value in to the wider Big Data Network.
-   Assist with the design and implementation of tools and techniques to
    enable data visualisation and understanding of Big Data such as
    smart meter energy data.
-   Provide input to wider UK Data Service capacity planning activities
    regarding new and novel forms of data.
-   Assist Functional Director, Big Data Network Support in planning and
    in the delivery of the core activities of Big Data Network Support
    including the management of and participation in projects.
-   Represent the section at management and other meetings; actively
    contribute to information exchange within the section and between
    other sections and service partners as appropriate.
-   Manage and participate in projects as appropriate; occasional
    representation of the team at management and other meetings;
    actively contribute to information exchange with both internal and
    external stakeholders
-   Playing a coordination role in the UK Data Service Big Data team
-   External Training and Capacity Building: Contribute to upskilling
    external audiences in a range of practices around new and novel
    forms of data
-   Internal Training and Capacity Building: Work closely with
    colleagues outside of Technical Services to support capacity
    building and integration of new big data knowledge and activities
    into the wider team and its working policies and procedures.
-   As well as the main duties of the post, the post-holder will be
    expected to participate in various activities appropriate to their
    seniority.
-   Any other duties required by the Director or his nominee.
  
Essential:

-   Undergraduate degree (or equivalent qualification) in a computing or
    related subject
-   Experience of work with others to develop, refine and scale data
    management and analytics procedures, systems, workflows, best
    practices and other issues.
-   Ability and experience dealing with very granular data -- preferably
    from a Hadoop data storage platform
-   Experience of both statistical modelling and technical, engineering
    skills
-   Good written and oral communications skills
-   Demonstrable time management and prioritisation of work activities
-   Can meet the requirements of UK 'right to work' legislation*
-   Motivated self-starter
-   Can fulfil the staff vetting procedure for Government contracts

Desirable:

-   Postgraduate degree (or equivalent qualification) in a computing or
    related subject
-   Experience of undertaking data analytics and using the outcomes of
    those analytics to improve business processes
-   Experience of developing solutions based on Apache Hadoop and using
    the Hadoop Distributed File System or an equivalent
-   Experience of using relational databases and management tools (such
    as Microsoft SQL Server and MS SQL Server Management Studio) in a
    production environment
-   Experience of using statistical analysis packages and languages
    (such as MATLAB, R, SAS, SPSS)
-   Experience of building and maintaining processing pipelines to feed
    dynamic visualisations of new and novel forms of data
-   Ability to create and maintain programming specifications
