+++
nid = "7135"
jid = "00405"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-04-21 12:44"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7135"
title = "Sr. Assistant Data Librarian"
employer = "The Roper Center for Public Opinion Research"
employerurl = "http://ropercenter.cornell.edu/"
postdate = "2016-04-21"
archivedate = "2016-04-21"
draft = "false"
+++
This position is the Roper Center Data Librarian and will play a
critical role within the senior leadership team of the Roper Center. The
incumbent will manage, develop and lead the collection of public opinion
survey/research archives, including assuring that data accepted into the
Roper Center Archive are maintained using the best practices in archival
methods and data curation, and are offered in current formats so as to
permit both long term preservation and dissemination. The Data Librarian
develops and adopts archival standards for the Roper Center's
collections; manages and coordinates various workflows within the
archive collections in accordance with expanding data curation and
online accessibility requirements; supports Roper Center's member
clients in the use of data files for secondary analysis, and coordinates
day-to-day operations that ensure the quality, timeliness, and
comprehensiveness of the Roper archive holdings. This individual also
plans, implements and directs data quality review and metadata
production workflows, as well as researches, proposes and implements
policies for long-term preservation and accessibility of Roper Center
polling and survey data.

The Data Librarian also identifies and pursues opportunities to promote
the quality of the Roper Center's Archive through meeting accreditation
processes and maintaining these accreditations, such as Data Seal of
Approval and AAPOR's Transparency Initiative. The incumbent will also
work with data donors, providers
and [innovators/developers]{.GH1VYTHCEFM} to develop collections with
the potential to enhance the Roper Center's Archive and related services
as a resource for the Center's existing and future members, and respond
to user inquiries in regard to finding, accessing and using Roper Center
data files for secondary analysis. The position is also responsible for
maintaining knowledge of emerging trends within public opinion research
data, including the interface between business and academic data and
trends in tools and provision in other domains. The Data Librarian
supervises archive staff including the Data Manager and student
interns.

The Data Librarian maintains and expands outreach and professional
engagement, including promoting the resources and services of the
Archive through presentations, webinars, and publications; participating
in writing proposals to funding agencies and execution of accepted
proposals; and establishing and maintaining professional relationships
with organizations and individuals engaged in similar or complementary
goals, such as IASSIST and Data-PASS.

The successful applicant will be an adaptive problem-solver familiar
with social science research methodologies and the use of quantitative
data, particularly public opinion. A key facet to this position will be
working closely and productively with other data and information
services professionals at Cornell and beyond as well as with various IT
staff members.
  
-   MLS from an ALA accredited school or Master's Degree in
    a [quantitatively-oriented]{.GH1VYTHCEFM} social science field. 
-   Minimum of three to five years' experience in digital archiving or
    data management.  
-   Demonstrated knowledge of archives and records management theory and
    practice, including experience processing archival records.
-   Knowledge of data preservation theory and practice, as well as
    strategies and technologies utilized by the archival community for
    managing data.
-   Knowledge of relevant standards for archival data description,
    including DDI, and familiarity with other metadata standards such as
    METS and PREMIS.
-   Excellent organizational skills and ability to plan, coordinate, and
    implement complex projects.
-   Excellent interpersonal, oral, and written communication skills.
-   Ability to work both independently and collaboratively with a
    variety of staff in a rapidly changing environment.

Preferred Qualifications:

-   Experience implementing policies, standards, and procedures for
    stewardship of data in an archive.
-   Familiarity with social science data and analysis. Comfortable with
    SPSS, Stata, or similar statistics software.
