+++
nid = "7252"
jid = "00425"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-09-19 10:24"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7252"
title = "Research Data Management Officer"
employer = "Nottingham Trent University"
employerurl = "https://www.ntu.ac.uk/"
postdate = "2016-09-01"
archivedate = "2016-09-19"
draft = "false"
+++
Support the development and implementation of research data management
policy, and a user-shaped research data management service at NTU. To
advise and assist research teams in the development of data management
plans ensuring they comply with research funding body regulations, are
stored effectively and are in place for all research projects within
NTU. Responsibility for the support, guidance, and oversight of the
storage of all current and past research project data ensuring timely
retrieval and appropriate access controls and procedures are in place
for data integrity and long term preservation (where appropriate)

Principal duties and responsibilities:
1. Data Management Policy and Governance

-   Ownership and maintenance of research data management policy,
    ensuring changes follow NTU's approval processes.
-   Coordinate and undertake audits of the research data management
    service.
-   Monitor compliance with research funder data policies and provide
    reports to University management, Schools and funders.
-   Maintenance of an appropriate calendar to review the NTU data
    management policies.

2. Leadership of the Data Management Service

-   Monitor and develop the Data Management Service, using expert
    knowledge to analyse information requirements and identify trends
    relating to research data management
-   Ensure current knowledge of research funders data management
    policies, reporting changes to senior management that may affect
    NTU's research.

3. Daily Management of the Data Management Service

-   Maintain a knowledge of the current data management lifecycle at NTU
-   Maintain an understanding of the current data management tools and
    provide support to researchers in the use of these tools.
-   Provide guidance to researchers to deliver their data management
    requirements in appropriate formats.
-   Assist researchers with the deposit of research data into the
    archive, and related metadata and documentation into IRep and
    related data integrity and preservation procedures
-   Work in partnership with colleagues within the Library to ensure all
    appropriate research data is discoverable.
-   Manage all aspects of copyright and licensing relating to the
    deposit, discoverability, sharing and reuse of research data
-   Monitor the data management service, reporting any issues with the
    service and communicating with research colleagues, the Library,
    Information Systems and third parties.

4. Data Management Plan Support

-   Ensure knowledge of data management plan requirements and policies
    (internally and externally) is current.
-   Analyse external changes in policy, propose and implement changes
    agreed by senior management.
-   Provide advice and support the completion of a data management plan,
    particularly in the areas of metadata capture, data sharing,
    preservation and reuse, copyright, licensing, legal, ethical and
    commercial issues.
-   Review data management plans for completeness.
-   Manage a data store of current and archived data management plans

5. Data Access Request Support

-   To receive and ensure the fulfilment of requests for open access
    research data
-   To provide guidance and develop procedures related to requests for
    research data

6. Liaison and Communication

-   Develop and deliver a co-ordinated programme of advocacy and
    training events on research data management to research staff,
    students and professional services staff, working closely with
    colleagues in the Library, Research Support Offices and Information
    Systems
-   Liaise with appropriate University professionals on issues such as
    FOI, data protection, ethics and research commercialisation to
    ensure appropriate and timely advice is available to researchers
-   Collaborate with the Library Research Team to ensure co-ordinated
    delivery of Research Services
-   Develop and maintain relationships with any third party suppliers of
    data management solutions
-   Develop and maintain regional and national links through active
    involvement with relevant professional organisations and networks
  
Essential:

-   Current knowledge of developments in higher education research in
    the UK.
-   Knowledge of UK Research Data Management Policies
-   An understanding of the requirements associated with Data Management
    Plans.
-   A working knowledge of UK and EU University Research Policies and
    Procedures
-   Excellent interpersonal skills and an ability to communicate with
    staff at all levels effectively including the ability to deliver
    high quality presentations to senior management.
-   Effective mediator with the ability to negotiate policies procedures
    and agreements.
-   Excellent writing skills to incorporate reports, position papers and
    strategic plans suitable for senior management.
-   Excellent analytical thinking and problem solving skills
-   The ability to be proactive, using own initiative to support senior
    colleagues.
-   An ability to work as part of a team
-   Strong practical experience of a variety of PC-based business
    software packages including use of MS Office and email in a business
    environment.
-   Experience of digital preservation and/or research data management
-   Experience of working with staff at all levels to deliver tasks,
    reporting progress to senior colleagues
-   Experience of operating to strict deadlines
-   Project management experience
-   Experience of designing and delivering training via different
    formats and to a variety of audiences
-   Educated to degree level, or professional qualification or
    equivalent experience.

Desireable:

-   An understanding of digital curation approaches in the UK and EU
-   Knowledge and experience of research methodologies
-   Knowledge of IPR and licensing issues relevant to research data and
    outputs
-   Knowledge of ethical issues relevant to research data
-   A minimum of 3 years' experience working in a University Research
    Environment.
-   Experience of implementing a research data management service in a
    University research environment
-   Creation and/or management of Data Management Plans and experience
    of the Data Curation Centre tools associated with this.
