+++
nid = "7251"
jid = "00424"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-09-19 10:13"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7251"
title = "Data Services Librarian"
employer = "University of Miami"
employerurl = "http://welcome.miami.edu/"
postdate = "2016-08-31"
archivedate = "2016-09-19"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Miami Libraries seeks applications for a Data Services
Librarian. Reporting to the Associate Dean for Digital Strategies and
working within a growing digital strategies team, the Data Services
Librarian, a newly defined position in the UM Libraries, will play a
central role in the development and provision of Library services for
access, use, manipulation, and management of qualitative and
quantitative datasets. The Data Services Librarian will work closely
with liaison librarians, the GIS Services Librarian, Digital Humanities
Librarian, and others to build a strong data services program. The UM
Libraries are in the midst of developing a Learning Commons, and this
position, along with the GIS Services Librarian, will play a critical
role in defining and implementing models for data services.

**Resposibilities:**

-   In collaboration with liaison librarians and others, provide
    consultative and instructional services for faculty, students, and
    staff in quantitative and qualitative data access and analysis,
    including use of software tools such as SPSS, SAS, NVivo, AtlasTI,
    and R;
-   Select and acquire licensed, free, and researcher‐generated data
    collections to support research, scholarship, and teaching;
-   Facilitate access to and use of data resources across disciplines;
-   Create and maintain a data services web presence;
-   Working in close collaboration with the GIS Services Librarian and
    the Learning Commons Implementation Team, design and implement a
    sustainable service model for data services in the Learning Commons;
-   Serve as the University of Miami's official representative to ICPSR
    and others as appropriate;
-   Identify and promulgate data standards, metadata standards, and best
    practices for numeric and qualitative data management;
-   As part of a larger campus effort, contribute to development of
    research data management services, including the management,
    curation, and sharing of data sets created by University of Miami
    researchers;
-   Work with the Digital Infrastructure and Services Team and others
    outside of the Library (researchers, Office of Research, Center for
    Computational Sciences, and others) to identify requirements for
    infrastructure for preservation and access to research data;
-   Working with the UM Libraries communications team and liaison
    librarians, market data services offerings across the university;
-   Assess services and identify critical needs to continue to grow data
    services; and
-   May serve in a supervisory role as appropriate.

**Service:**

-   Network, collaborate, and actively participate in local, regional,
    national, and/or international organizations regarding data
    services;
-   Represent and promote the University of Miami Libraries in local,
    state‐wide, regional, national, or international organizations, as
    appropriate; and
-   Serve on/participate in Libraries and University organizations,
    committees, task forces, and teams as appropriate.
  
**Minimum Qualifications:**

-   An ALA‐accredited MLS or MLIS degree, or, a Master's or higher
    degree in a data‐ intensive discipline.
-   Demonstrable experience working with numeric data in an academic or
    research setting.
-   Knowledge of free and licensed sources for numeric datasets.
-   Proven experience in the use of major statistical/analysis packages
    (such as SAS, R, STATA, and SPSS).
-   Familiarity with issues related to qualitative data collection and
    analysis, including software packages such as NVivo or AtlasTI.
-   Familiarity with principles of data documentation and metadata in an
    academic or research context.
-   Demonstrated commitment to user‐centered library service and the
    ability to work flexibly and creatively in a changing and fast‐paced
    environment with a culturally diverse population.
-   Good listener, superb people skills, and a strong team orientation.
-   Capacity for professional development, involvement, and
    contribution.

 

**Preferred Qualifications:**

-   ** **One year of relevant data services experience in an academic,
    scientific, or corporate setting.
-   Advanced degree in a data intensive research field.
-   Experience with one or more commonly used data repository platforms.
-   Experience working in an academic library environment.
