+++
nid = "7156"
jid = "00406"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-05-12 17:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7156"
title = "Metadata Librarian"
employer = "The University of Kansas"
employerurl = "http://ku.edu/"
postdate = "2016-05-12"
archivedate = "2016-05-12"
draft = "false"
+++
[The University of Kansas Libraries seeks a knowledgeable, enthusiastic
and innovative individual to articulate and execute a vision for
enhancing resource access and discovery in the evolving world of diverse
library collections and digital scholarship.   The Metadata Librarian
provides leadership to the University of Kansas Libraries and the campus
community on the creation, analysis and curation of metadata.  The
position serves as the Libraries' primary resource for non-MARC metadata
design, structure and standards.

Reporting to the Assistant Dean for Information Technology and Discovery
Services, the Metadata Librarian is a member of the Metadata, Data, and
Discovery Services team.  The Metadata Librarian develops workflows for
efficiently incorporating high-quality metadata into repositories,
publishing platforms, and other systems.  In close collaboration with
colleagues throughout the Libraries, the position defines, coordinates,
and completes projects that improve management of and access to digital
resources.  The Metadata Librarian consults with faculty and campus
researchers on metadata and data in support of digital scholarship to
enhance research, teaching, and learning at the University of Kansas.

This is a full time, 12-month, tenure-track faculty position. See
[Handbook for Faculty and Other Unclassified
Staff](https://documents.ku.edu/policies/provost/FacultyandUnclassifiedStaffHandbook.pdf) 
for criteria.]{.TEXT}

[[**70% Professional Responsibilities**

Provides expertise on metadata production and workflows for description,
discovery, access, administration and preservation of digital objects

Creates, enhances, and curates metadata for digital collections that
promote interoperability and discovery, including migrating existing
data into new structures and formats

Collaborates with internal and external partners in the selection,
design, and adaptation of metadata schema, controlled vocabularies, and
data dictionaries

Expands staff awareness of and experience with emerging metadata
standards and formats, developing documentation, and providing
training.

Collaborates with local, national, and international partners on
research to advance the effective use of metadata in digital library
services.

**20%  Research**

Contributes to the profession's collective knowledge by engaging in
scholarly research activity. Research may involve the publication of
articles, books, book reviews, grant-supported inquiry, or editorial
work.
 
**10% Service**

Engages in service to the Libraries, the University and to professional
organizations by participating in committee work, projects, and other
contributory achievements.
 
Represent KU Libraries in regional, national, and/or international
professional organizations of relevance to higher education and academic
libraries.  Participate in regional, national, and/or international
consortial collaborations.]{.TEXT}]{.TEXT}
  
Required:

[ ]{.TEXT}

-   ALA-accredited MLS by date of appointment.
-   Demonstrated experience working with standard metadata formats
    (e.g., MODS, EAD, RDF, PREMIS, etc.) as evidenced by application
    materials
-   Excellent written communication as demonstrated by application
    materials.

Preferred:

[]{.TEXT}

-   Demonstrated initiative in investigating new ideas and implementing
    change.
-   Excellent oral communication skills and the ability to collaborate
    effectively with diverse constituents.
-   Experience using a programming language (e.g., Python, Ruby, PHP) to
    automate tasks and interact with APIs.
-   Familiarity with XML/XSLT and JSON.
-   Experience transforming metadata between standard formats.
-   Familiarity with principles of cataloging, controlled vocabularies,
    and linked data.
-   Ability to provide effective individual and group training.
-   Engagement in national/international standards and professional
    organizations related to metadata.
-   Experience with DSpace, Fedora Commons, Islandora, and/or
    ArchivesSpace.
