+++
nid = "7007"
jid = "00401"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-04-01 14:59"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7007"
title = "Humanities and Digital Scholarship Librarian"
employer = "MIT Libraries"
employerurl = "https://libraries.mit.edu/"
postdate = "2016-03-31"
archivedate = "2016-04-01"
draft = "false"
+++
The [MIT]{.il} Libraries seek a knowledgeable and enterprising librarian
to join a growing team of liaisons developing new services and
collaborations in digital scholarship.  The Humanities and Digital
Scholarship Librarian will support and collaborate with students and
faculty doing research in history and other selected humanities
disciplines. The successful candidate will engage with a dynamic
community in which traditional research methods co-exist and integrate
with highly innovative digital scholarship and pedagogies.   Teaching
experience, digital project skills, and expertise in humanities research
methods and resources are key qualifications. 

Advancing the capacity of the [MIT]{.il} Libraries to collaborate on
digital scholarship projects is central to the position.  To support
the [MIT]{.il} community's current needs, the librarian in this position
will collaborate with departments in the [MIT]{.il} Libraries ranging
from Data and Specialized Services to Institute Archives and Special
Collections, and work on project teams with colleagues in new positions
focused on digital scholarship.  To advance support for digital
scholarship, the HDS Librarian will help design and implement a
skills-building educational program in research methods, new research
tools, data management, collaborative scholarship platforms, and digital
presentation or publishing.  Additionally, the liaison will engage
professionally with library and scholarly organizations to further
his/her foundational knowledge of trends and issues related to
humanities scholarship in order to contribute to strategic change.

Reporting to the Department Head for Liaison, Instruction and Reference
Services, the Humanities and Digital Scholarship Librarian will serve as
a liaison for history and selected other humanities subjects, delivering
a program of services and products to support faculty and student
success in research, teaching and learning.  The liaison will provide
instruction in research skills and strategies, collaborate and consult
on digital projects, develop customized resources to support student
learning, and ensure that his/her constituencies can make effective use
of all library services and resources.   The librarian will support
selected other humanities disciplines based on experience and expertise.
In collaboration with colleagues, the librarian will select resources,
provide reference services, and participate on cross-unit projects to
enhance the quality and impact of library services.
  
**Required:**

-   MLS/MLIS or relevant advanced degree. 
-   Knowledge of new as well as traditional research methods and
    resources used in history research and scholarship.
-   Teaching experience in higher education (e.g., curricular
    instruction, library instruction, teaching assistant work, etc.).
-   Experience supporting or participating in a substantial digital
    humanities project
-   Expertise with a range of tools or practices essential in digital
    scholarship, (data management, working with digital texts,
    multimedia presentation platforms, data visualization, datamining,
    etc.).
-   Ability to cultivate and sustain productive relationships with
    faculty and academic staff.
-   Enthusiasm for embracing the empathy, courage, self-reflection and
    respect essential in a multicultural, diverse and inclusive
    workplace, and ability to embrace those values in collections and
    public service work.
-   Ability to work effectively in a shared decision-making environment:
    appropriately taking initiative or seeking guidance, working
    independently or collaboratively, coordinating projects, and helping
    others succeed.
-   Excellent skills for sharing information appropriately in multiple
    contexts.

 

**Preferred**

-   Advance degree in history or related field, or recent coursework.
-   Project management experience and skills.
-   Credentials, participation or active engagement with national or
    regional digital scholarship or digital humanities organizations.
-   Demonstrated ability to contribute to organizational learning.
-   Significant experience working with primary sources and/or
    conducting archival research
-   Collection development experience.
