+++
nid = "7188"
jid = "00414"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-07-01 11:34"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7188"
title = "Associate Director, Resources and Management Services"
employer = "UK Data Archive "
employerurl = "http://data-archive.ac.uk/"
postdate = "2016-06-30"
archivedate = "2016-07-01"
draft = "false"
+++
The main duties of the post will include:
Leadership

-   Lead the UKDA's resource management function and support the
    planning, development and implementation of policy decisions.
-   Responsible for ensuring there are appropriate and effective
    mechanisms for consultation and communication between the UK Data
    Archive, the Faculty, academic departments within the Faculty of
    Social Sciences and central professional services sections within
    the University.
-   Develop and deliver internal (Department and University) training on
    areas relating to core post responsibilities (e.g., Finance, HR,
    Planning, etc.)
-   Deputise for the Director of the UK Data Archive when necessary,
    which may include authorising funding applications in consultation
    with the Research and Enterprise Office, and representing the UK
    Data Archive at University management meetings.
-   Represent the UK Data Archive externally on national and
    international committees and advisory bodies as agreed with the
    Director.
-   Assist the Director in ensuring that the Department's interests are
    promoted effectively, both internally and externally.

Resource management

-   Manage the Department's financial, staffing, space and other
    resources within approved budgets and allocations, and in accordance
    with the University's financial regulations, human resources
    policies and procedures, and other relevant regulations and
    policies.
-   Manage provision of administrative support for all of the sections
    within the UK Data Archive.
-   Manage the Department's business records management activities.
-   Promote measures within the Department to increase operational
    efficiency, so that where possible and feasible existing resources
    are freed in order to enhance research activity.

Human Resources Management

-   Responsible for the delivery of strategic HR Management ensuring
    best practice adherence to all policies, procedures and regulations.
    To include:
-   Recruitment and selection
-   Induction, mentoring and probation
-   Staff development, including appraisal and continuous development
-   Performance management and review
-   Promotion and reward
-   Ensure that the University's Health and Safety Policy is implemented
    within the department.

Financial and Strategic Planning

-   Working with the UK Data Archive Director, responsible for
    developing, reviewing and enhancing the UK Data Archive's Strategic
    Plan, and support the delivery of its objectives.
-   Working with the UK Data Archive Director, responsible for the
    Archive's engagement in the University's Annual Strategic Planning
    Process, ensuring that the department engages fully and
    constructively in the process, and support the delivery of its
    objectives.
-   Responsible for ensuring that financial expenditure on services and
    projects is effectively monitored and that issues are identified and
    addressed as required. Liaise with REO over formulation of IP
    documents and licences, contracts and other agreements with external
    collaborators.
-   Work within the UK Data Archive's Policy Group to develop new
    sources of income.
-   Work across the UK Data Archive's groups to ensure alignment of
    strategic governance issues.

Education and research

-   Assist the UK Data Archive Director (as the designated Departmental
    Research Director) in developing and implementing a departmental
    research strategy that enables the department to meet the
    University's relevant strategic objectives.
-   Provide support to UK Data Archive staff for the preparation of new
    funding applications and tenders.
-   Liaise with the University Research and Enterprise Office over
    formulation of new research contracts and extensions of existing
    contracts.
-   Co-ordinate departmental student placement opportunities.

Other

-   Assist the Associate Director, Preservation Planning, to maintain
    the list of statutory and non-statutory requirements applicable to
    the business activities of UKDA, and ensure all staff are fully
    cognizant of their responsibilities.
-   Provide guidance and support to the Management Information Systems
    section, in particular the relevant Manager, for the implementation
    and maintenance of an integrated records management system for the
    business (non-repository) records of the department and services
    provided by the department.
-   Contribute to the external communications activities of the UK Data
    Archive through appropriate communications channels including the
    departmental website, working with the Communications and Impact
    Team.
-   Any other duties as delegated by the Director, UK Data Archive, or
    his/her nominee.
  
Essential:

-   A social science degree or equivalent relevant
    experience/qualification.
-   A broad understanding of UK Higher Education.
-   Appreciation and knowledge of UK social science landscape, and an
    ability to apply this knowledge practically in an administrative
    context.
-   Track record of success in a relevant senior leadership and
    management role within a complex organisation.
-   Demonstrable experience at a senior level in a range of areas of
    academic administration including finance, human resource management
    and/or University governance.
-   Experience of costing and preparing project proposals and tenders.
-   Demonstrable understanding of contracts and agreements including
    intellectual property rights issues.
-   Experience in financial management of complex projects with multiple
    reporting lines and responsibilities.
-   Staff management experience, with the ability to lead, motivate and
    manage a team of professional staff to successful achievement of
    objectives.
-   Demonstrable interest in at least one area relating to data service
    infrastructure.
-   Experience of the development and implementation of policies and
    procedures, in line with best practice.
-   Ability to think strategically, to develop goals and identify and
    implement tasks to achieve them.
-   Proven ability to be proactive, to solve practical and logistical
    problems, to prioritise tasks, meet deadlines and work
    independently.
-   Strong leadership and people management skills.
-   Highly developed negotiating/ influencing skills.
-   Excellent communication and presentation skills and an ability to
    engage credibly across all areas of the UK Data Archive and with
    external stakeholders.
-   Excellent financial and budget management skills.
-   Ability to develop, plan and implement projects and change, with the
    ability to establish clear priorities, and monitor performance
    against objectives.
-   Ability to work effectively as a member of the team and to develop
    close and effective working relationships with academic and
    Professional Services staff colleagues across the University.
-   Excellent organisational and administrative skills and ability to
    work to tight deadlines.
-   High level of computer literacy with a high degree of familiarity
    with office management software.
-   Ability to meet the requirements of UK 'right to work' legislation*

Desired:

-   Understanding of current broad social science research agendas and
    priorities.
-   Demonstrable experience in international collaborative work.
-   Working knowledge of administration/management in Higher Education.
-   Higher degree or relevant professional qualification.
