+++
nid = "6886"
jid = "00386"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-01-27 12:59"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6886"
title = "Data Librarian"
employer = "Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland"
employerurl = "https://www.clevelandfed.org/"
postdate = "2016-01-25"
archivedate = "2016-01-27"
draft = "false"
+++
Serve as a member of the Research Library staff focused on Data
Management. The individual in this role will play a vital role in
establishing best practices for acquiring and managing data assets in
the Bank.

Essential Accountabilities:

-   Provide research and reference services including responding to data
    requests, locating data and supporting documentation, performing
    in-depth bibliographic searching.
-   Share knowledge of existing data products in the market and
    understand the current state and trends in data services and
    analysis tools.
-   Negotiate data contracts with third parties and manage compliance
    with licensing requirements.
-   Create and maintain a process for data lifecycle management,
    including recording requests, disseminating contract terms to users,
    managing access to data, and archiving and preserving data.
-   Provide Library Reference customer service to Bank employees,
    Federal Reserve System contacts, and the public by responding to
    information requests.
-   Manage compliance of internally created and purchased data with
    Federal Reserve information security requirements.
-   Partner with local and national information technology staff to
    develop and implement approaches to making large data sets
    accessible to Cleveland Fed staff.
-   Develop expertise in data archiving options and assist users with
    data preservation activities including internally developed datasets
    and code.
-   Enhance accessibility of purchased and created datasets through the
    assignment of metadata. Test data quality through profiling
    activities.
-   Monitor accuracy, consistency, and usability of data to ensure
    Library users will find the information requested.
-   Participate in Federal Reserve System data committees and
    initiatives.
-   Remain current with emerging standards and professional best
    practices.
-   Adhere to the Bank's attendance policies through regular and prompt
    attendance.
-   Perform other duties as assigned or requested
  
-   Master's degree of Library Science, Library and Information Science
    or Economics.
-   3+ years of related work experience required.
-   Experience/strong familiarity with economics, banking and
    finance-related datasets and other information.
-   Experience with data management tools and/or statistical software
    preferred.
-   Knowledge of major data providers and their products (e.g., S&P,
    Thomson Reuters)
-   Ability to prioritize multiple projects and track workflow
    efficiently. Strong multi-tasker.
-   Excellent analytical, communication and interpersonal skills,
    including the ability to work as part of a team and independently.
