+++
nid = "7277"
jid = "00440"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-11-08 06:51"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7277"
title = "Program Head, Data Management Services"
employer = "Massachusetts Institute of Technology"
employerurl = "http://web.mit.edu/"
postdate = "2016-11-04"
archivedate = "2016-11-08"
draft = "false"
+++
The MIT Libraries seek a committed and knowledgeable professional with
established expertise in supporting research data services to lead and
develop the Libraries growing program in Data Management Services
(DMS).  The Libraries' program aspires to support data management across
the Institute's full range of disciplines and data formats, and
throughout the data life cycle. 

Reporting to the Head of Data and Specialized Services (DSS), the
program head will lead an interdepartmental team that develops and
supports research data services offered to the MIT Community.  The
program head will manage the development and operation of the DMS
portfolio of projects and services.  S/he will enable collaborative work
and efficient group process among DMS team members, facilitate their
professional development, and serve as the supervisor (direct and
indirect) to team members.  S/he actively participates in delivering
services, including consultations, instruction, creating web content,
and promotion of DMS services.

The program head will be involved and often lead library contributions
to university-wide initiatives to develop and design policies, services,
and infrastructure to enable faculty and students to manage their work
with research data.  S/he will foster relationships and communication
with key stakeholder groups providing related services within the
Libraries and across MIT.  The program head will gather intelligence
about MIT Community data management practices and needs and advocate for
service development and improvements to address them.

The program head is part of the DSS leadership team.  In that role s/he
participates in departmental initiatives and programs and is expected to
be involved in explorations and development of library-hosted digital
scholarship services.  The program head will promote awareness of DMS
resources and services within the Libraries and foster efforts to raise
data management knowledge and skills throughout the organization.

The successful candidate will be able to effectively marshal available
resources to deliver high-quality services while cultivating new
organizational capabilities.  The individual will help shape and
articulate the vision for data services and thrive on working in a
fast-paced environment.  Professionals who enthusiastically embrace the
empathy, courage, self-reflection and respect essential in a
multicultural, diverse and inclusive workplace, and who strive to
incorporate those values in public service work, research, and program
development are encouraged to apply.
  
Required:

-   MLS/MLIS or an advanced degree in relevant field. 
-   Experience in the provision of services for research data
    management.
-   Demonstration of advanced skills in working with research data in
    one phase of the research lifecycle.
-   Demonstrated capacity to manage a portfolio of projects and
    services.
-   Demonstrated capacity to develop and deliver services to a research
    community.
-   Demonstrated understanding of the roles of libraries in providing
    research data management services.
-   Knowledge of best practices for data management workflows,
    institutional repository, and electronic lab notebook technologies.
-   A collaborative approach to problem solving and working across
    organizational boundaries in service of user needs.
-   Highly developed communication skills, both oral and written.
-   Demonstrated ability to be flexible and tolerate ambiguity in a
    rapidly evolving environment.
-   Demonstrated leadership potential.

Preferred:

-   Experience in developing and/or managing a data management program.
-   Supervisory experience.
-   Advanced subject degree and/or experience as a researcher or member
    of a research team. 
-   Evidence of effective collaboration with faculty, colleagues, and
    students.
-   Record of professional involvement.
