+++
nid = "7267"
jid = "00434"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-10-03 10:14"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7267"
title = "Metadata Librarian"
employer = "The University of Kansas"
employerurl = "http://ku.edu/"
postdate = "2016-09-30"
archivedate = "2016-10-03"
draft = "false"
+++
[The University of Kansas Libraries seeks a knowledgeable, enthusiastic
and innovative individual to enhance resource discovery, access and
preservation in the evolving world of diverse library collections and
digital scholarship.  The Metadata Librarian provides leadership to the
University of Kansas Libraries and the campus community on the creation,
management, and analysis of metadata.  The position serves as the
Libraries' primary resource for non-MARC metadata design, structure and
standards.

Reporting to the Assistant Dean for Digital Initiatives and Discovery
Services, the Metadata Librarian is a member of the Digital Initiatives
team.  The Metadata Librarian develops workflows for efficiently
incorporating high-quality metadata into repositories, publishing
platforms, and other systems.  In close collaboration with colleagues
throughout the Libraries, the position defines, coordinates, and
completes projects that improve the curation of digital resources.  The
Metadata Librarian consults with faculty and campus researchers in
support of digital scholarship to enhance research, teaching, and
learning at the University of Kansas.]{.TEXT}

[**70% Professional Responsibilities**]{.TEXT}

-   Provides expertise on metadata production and workflows for
    description, discovery, access, administration and preservation of
    digital objects
-   Creates, enhances, and manages metadata that promote
    interoperability and discovery, including migrating existing data
    into new structures and formats
-   Collaborates with internal and external partners in the selection,
    design, and adaptation of metadata schema, controlled vocabularies,
    and data dictionaries
-   Expands staff awareness of and experience with emerging metadata
    standards and formats, developing documentation, and providing
    training.
-   Collaborates with local, national, and international partners on
    research to advance the effective use of metadata in digital library
    services.
-   Demonstrates a commitment to advancing diversity efforts and
    contributes to an inclusive environment.
-   Actively communicate issues implicit in scholarly communication and
    open access in discussions with colleagues and with the KU
    community. Attends training and events designed and developed to
    promote understanding of trends and best practices in scholarly
    communications. Reflects this understanding in his or her work as a
    librarian at KU.
-   Actively participate in, and advocates for, the educational role of
    the Libraries through dynamic engagement in campus teaching and
    research, campus collaborations, or staff development and training.


**20% Research**

-   Contributes to the profession's collective knowledge by engaging in
    scholarly research activity. Research may involve the publication of
    articles, books, book reviews, grant-supported inquiry, or editorial
    work.


**10% Service**

-   Engages in service to the Libraries, the University and to
    professional organizations by participating in committee work,
    projects, and other contributory achievements.
  
Required:

1.  ALA-accredited MLS or equivalent from a foreign institution by date
    of appointment.
2.  Demonstrated experience working with standard library metadata
    formats (e.g., Dublin Core, MODS, EAD, RDF, PREMIS, etc.) as
    evidenced by application materials
3.  Excellent written communication as demonstrated by application
    materials.

 

Preferred:

1.  Demonstrated initiative in investigating new ideas and implementing
    change.
2.  Excellent oral communication skills and the ability to collaborate
    effectively with diverse constituents.
3.  Experience using a programming language (e.g., Python, Ruby, PHP) to
    automate tasks and interact with APIs.
4.  Familiarity with XML/XSLT and JSON.
5.  Experience transforming metadata between standard formats.
6.  Familiarity with principles of cataloging, controlled vocabularies,
    and linked data.
7.  Familiarity with metadata support for data management and digital
    preservation
8.  Experience with DSpace, Fedora Commons, Islandora, and/or
    ArchivesSpace.
