+++
nid = "7004"
jid = "00398"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-04-01 14:46"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7004"
title = "Data Analytics and Management Librarian"
employer = "United States Special Operations Command"
employerurl = "http://www.socom.mil/default.aspx"
postdate = "2016-03-16"
archivedate = "2016-04-01"
draft = "false"
+++
United States Special Operations Command, Fort Bragg, NC requires a Data
Analytics and Management Librarian with a minimum US SECRET clearance
for an initial three month period from approximately 1 April -- 30 June
2016.  Librarian will provide consulting and instruction for data
analytics and management activities including: helping prepare data for
analysis and sharing, constructing data management plans, and advising
on best practices of managing research data.   

**
Responsibilities**

-   Conceptualizes, plans, and implements descriptive framework and
    practices for this repository. Serves as the leader for adopting
    technologies related to creation and use of metadata and for
    standardizing descriptive metadata practice across formats,
    projects, and programs, to facilitate digital preservation and
    access.  
-   Analyzes current organizational taxonomy and ontology for
    recommended improvements and for implementation of those
    improvements as directed. 
-   The taxonomy covers a wide array of terms across various functions,
    roles and responsibilities in a Joint military environment. The
    primary use of the enhanced taxonomy and ontology will be to enable
    metadata standardization and tagging across a variety of IT
    platforms--- primarily SharePoint and file shares and the search
    indices for both. The organization is currently working to
    implement 
-   SmartLogic metadata tagging solution across the enterprise; the
    improved taxonomy/ontology will be used as the baseline for
    development of tagging rules and relationships.
-   Develops training for the organization's information architecture
    team to enhance their knowledge and understanding and develops
    training for organizational information owners in order to improve
    their proficiency and understanding of the value of tagging.
-   Provides consultations, planning, and instruction for data analytics
    and management for both quantitative and qualitative data.
  
**Required:**

-   Masters degree in a field requiring data management expertise plus
    experience or equivalent combination of education and experience.
-   Demonstrated experience with data management (data transformation,
    data verification, and coding skills) and use in a variety of
    contexts, such as an academic research library, corporate library,
    medical library, medical center or US Government.
-   Experience working with metadata tools such as Semaphore, Excel or
    OpenRefine. 
-   Excellent interpersonal, oral and written communication skills
-   Ability to describe and organize information in SharePoint

**Desired:**

-   Experience managing large datasets, including data segmentation and
    staging
