+++
nid = "7528"
jid = "00476"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-05-25 13:39"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7528"
title = "Research Support Specialist"
employer = "The Institute for Research on Innovation and Science (IRIS) in the Survey Research Center (SRC) at the University of Michigan’s Institute for Social Research"
employerurl = "http://iris.isr.umich.edu/"
postdate = "2017-05-25"
archivedate = "2017-05-25"
draft = "false"
+++
The Institute for Research on Innovation and Science (IRIS) in the
Survey Research Center (SRC) at the University of Michigan's Institute
for Social Research is seeking a Research Support Specialist.

IRIS is a university collaboration that collects, integrates,
warehouses, and makes available restricted and publicly available data
on the social and economic impact of academic research and training. It
is part of the Innovation, Networks, and Knowledge (INK) program at the
Institute for Social Research (ISR) at the University of Michigan. ISR
is the world's largest academic social science survey and research
organization and conducts some of the most widely-cited and influential
social science research in the world. Its work is supported through
institutional membership dues and research grants.

IRIS ingests member university administrative data related to research
awards and student academic data into a highly protected data enclave
environment and makes linkages to federal datasets, allowing IRIS to
then generate reports demonstrating the career trajectory of research
staff, vendor spending, and other measures of impact. In addition, IRIS
makes these combined datasets available for research purposes, allowing
approved investigators to access de-identified data in a virtual data
enclave. See  [iris.isr.umich.edu](http://www.iris.isr.umich.edu) for
more information.

**Responsibilities**

The Institute for Research on Innovation and Science (IRIS) is seeking a
Research Support Specialist who will primarily be responsible for
providing support to researchers accessing IRIS datasets. Major areas of
responsibility:

Contribute to efforts to create and maintain a vibrant community of
researchers through various means, including but not limited to:

-   coordinating the logistics of a researcher grant program,
-   developing communication platforms that promote interaction and
    engagement, monitoring the use of a documentation wiki, and
-   assisting in updating documentation and curating/versioning
    datasets.
-   Serving as primary point of contact for researchers, triaging and
    supporting their requests, maintaining a tracking system and
    providing monthly reports on number and type of issues.
-   Contribute to IRIS research projects by assisting with data linkage
    work and analysis.
-   Assist in developing training materials for researchers.
  
**Required Qualifications**

-   Bachelor's degree in a social science field (such as political
    science, sociology, or economics), information science, or other
    relevant field
-   1-3 years' experience in social science research in a higher
    education setting which can include some combination of the
    following:
-   helping to carry out some aspect of research, such as data
    collection or data entry/analysis
-   participation in dissemination of research findings, such as helping
    prepare presentations, publications, abstracts, etc.
-   Demonstrated understanding of data management best practices
-   Familiarity with relational databases
-   Customer focused, with the ability to develop and maintain effective
    working relationships with researchers and external stakeholders
-   Detail oriented
-   Excellent communication skills, both verbal and written

**Desired Qualifications**

-   Master's degree/coursework in a social science field (such as
    political science, sociology, or economics), information science, or
    other relevant field
-   Experience in assembling/writing data documentation
-   Working with restricted or limited access data
-   Experience in developing/presenting training materials to a variety
    of audiences
