+++
nid = "7605"
jid = "00513"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-01-16 06:59"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7605"
title = "Deputy Data Librarian"
employer = "The University of Edinburgh, EDINA and Data Library"
employerurl = "https://www.ed.ac.uk/information-services/about/organisation/edl"
postdate = "2017-11-29"
archivedate = "2018-01-16"
draft = "false"
+++
EDINA and Data Library is a centre of digital expertise for UK Higher
Education. Our contributions at the University of Edinburgh are through
the digital research services of Information Services, in particular the
Research Data Service. We are seeking an experienced, expert data
professional to deliver data management and curation services to
researchers across the University, and to help build and raise awareness
of new service components such as our forthcoming Data Safe Haven.

You will be a library or data professional with substantial academic
service experience looking to apply your knowledge in an established
academic data service environment. You will wish to apply your data
curation and advocacy skills in a large and varied leading research
institution, working with members of a virtual team across IT and
Library domains.

The Research Data Support section (also known as the Data Library),
comprises a small team which has been integral to the University's
strong international reputation as a leader in Research Data Management
(RDM). The Deputy Data Librarian is an integral role in the development
and delivery of the Research Data Service, delivered by EDINA and Data
Library together with other divisions of Information Services.

The Research Data Support section has developed world-class training in
research data management, including Research Data MANTRA. The team
delivers data curation and data support services for University
researchers, including the Finding Data portal and the Edinburgh
DataShare repository, as well as contributes to newer innovative
developments in long-term data retention and secure access to sensitive
data.

You will join the Research Data Service as a senior member of a
talented, broad-based team, contributing strategic and operational
leadership. Advantages of working at the University include generous
benefits and holiday provision.
  
You must be a university postgraduate with significant relevant
experience in providing services, preferably data services, in a
University environment; postgraduate qualifications in
library/information science or other relevant field highly desirable.
Excellent communication skills (verbal and written) and
computer/Internet literacy required. Demonstrated ability to design and
deliver successful user services or projects.

There are a number of knowledge domains that you must be comfortable
operating within: web content management systems, repository platforms,
open access, metadata standards, research areas using quantitative
methods and data science techniques, digital curation and preservation,
grant writing and project management, and the ITIL service framework,
data security standards such as ISO 27001, data protection legislation
and information governance frameworks.

**Qualifications/Training**

*Essential*

-   University postgraduate degree (or equivalent qualification) in a
    relevant field.

*Desirable*

-   Library/information science postgraduate degree (or equivalent
    qualification).
-   Data-related training.
-   Digital curation-related training.
-   Information governance or 'safe researcher' training.

**Experience**

*Essential*

-   Considerable experience in providing services in a university
    environment.
-   Demonstrated ability to design and deliver successful user services
    or projects, including setting policy.
-   Experience of customer service or quality assurance.
-   Some experience of analysis or manipulation of research data or
    engaging in digital scholarship.

*Desirable*

-   Substantial experience in provision of data-related services.
-   Experience in gathering and documenting user requirements.
-   Experience in successfully bidding for external funding.
-   Experience managing a complex project to completion, or of direct
    line management or student supervision.
-   Experience reporting to stakeholders.

**Knowledge, Skills and Competencies**

*Essential*

-   Demonstrated verbal and written communication skills, including
    persuasive presentations and 'writing for the web'.
-   Ability to manage relationships effectively.
-   Knowledge of the generation and use of research data in multiple
    disciplines.
-   Expertise in digital curation and preservation methods, including
    repository systems and metadata standards.
-   Understanding of how research data management fits in with broader
    scholarly communication trends, such as open access.
-   Computer skills including some use of command line, such as in
    statistical programming or working on a server.
-   Competent use of social media for service promotion purposes (blogs,
    twitter, etc.).

*Desirable*

-   Use of Web content management systems (such as Drupal, Wordpress).
-   Familiarity with the ITIL service framework.
-   Familiarity with data security standards such as ISO 27001.
-   Awareness of data protection legislation and information governance
    frameworks.

**Personal Attributes**

*Essential*

-   Strong service orientation.
-   Excellent organizational, analytical, and problem-solving skills.
-   Sound judgment in prioritising user and stakeholder needs in
    response to work pressures.
-   Creative collaborator.

*Desirable*

-   Enthusiasm for the academic pursuit; improving the wider
    scholarly/scientific record.
-   Desire to enhance the organisation's reputation through one's work.
