+++
nid = "7517"
jid = "00466"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-05-22 14:44"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7517"
title = "Data Services Librarian"
employer = "San Jose State University Library"
employerurl = "http://www.sjsu.edu/"
postdate = "2017-04-24"
archivedate = "2017-05-22"
draft = "false"
+++
The Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Library seeks an innovative,
knowledgeable, service-minded librarian to provide leadership in the
area of data management and services. The Data Services Librarian
develops and promotes Library services related to the discovery,
analysis, manipulation and visualization of data. S/he will collaborate
with faculty, library staff and campus stakeholders to develop and
implement innovative services to support data-intensive research,
including data management plans. The Data Services Librarian serves as a
liaison librarian in areas determined by candidate's educational and
research background and library needs. As a library faculty member, the
candidate engages in library and university governance and scholarship
that includes research, scholarly and creative activities required for
tenure and promotion.

**Responsibilities:**

-   Develop and promote Library services related to the discovery,
    analysis, manipulation and visualization of data.
-   Develop a service framework for working with researchers to manage
    their data throughout the research lifecycle.
-   Lead efforts to support data literacy skills across campus.
-   Select, acquire, manage and deliver licensed, free and
    researcher-generated data collections to support campus research and
    scholarship.
-   Work with liaison librarians to facilitate access to data resources
    and develop data management plans across the disciplines.
-   Maintain current knowledge of the trends and issues in higher
    education, scholarly communication and research practices.
-   Participates in the library liaison program providing services to
    one or more academic departments.
  
**Required Qualifications:**

-   Master's degree in library science or equivalent (MSLS, MLIS, MALS
    etc.) from a library school program accredited by the American
    Library Association is required by start of appointment.
-   Demonstrated experience using quantitative and/or geospatial
    products and processes.
-   Ability to articulate a vision of the services, infrastructure, and
    skills required to support the data needs of researchers in an
    academic setting.
-   Knowledge of public and proprietary resources for national and
    international data sets, data management practices, data policies,
    sharing and reuse, and data citation.
-   Demonstrated understanding of the trends in data management
    throughout the research lifecycle.
-   Excellent oral and written communication skills and interpersonal
    skills.
-   Ability to manage projects and multiple tasks while meeting
    deadlines.
-   Demonstrated awareness of and sensitivity to educational goals of a
    multicultural population as might have been gained in cross-cultural
    study, training, teaching, and other comparable experience

**Preferred Qualifications:**

-   Demonstrated ability to work collaboratively with public and
    academic librarians and staff, teaching faculty, and students in a
    rapidly changing information environment.
-   Demonstrated ability to plan, design and implement innovative
    projects or services.
-   Knowledge of the research process and evolving models of scholarly
    communication, open access, e-science, institutional repositories,
    and other trends in information science.
-   Undergraduate or graduate degree or equivalent training/work
    experience in science, social sciences, or engineering.
-   Knowledge of digital preservation and metadata considerations for
    data.
