+++
nid = "7554"
jid = "00485"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-07-10 07:49"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7554"
title = "Assistant Director for Medical Education and Access Services"
employer = "Indiana University School of Medicine"
employerurl = "https://medicine.iu.edu/"
postdate = "2017-07-03"
archivedate = "2017-07-10"
draft = "false"
+++
Based in vibrant Indianapolis, IN, the Ruth Lilly Medical Library seeks
a dynamic, collaborative, and talented Assistant Director for Education
and Access Services to assist in planning, coordination, and promotion
of instruction, reference, and circulation services. The person in this
position will plan, promote, and provide instruction and information
services that support the needs of students, residents, faculty,
researchers, and staff of the Indiana University School of Medicine
([IUSM]{.caps}). This position will also oversee reference and
circulation staff and services.

This is a tenure-track faculty position that will report to the
Associate Director of Public Services.

[IUSM]{.caps} is the nation's largest medical school with nine campuses
throughout Indiana. This school is one of the nation's premiere medical
schools and is an innovative leader in medical education, research, and
clinical care.

[IUSM]{.caps} is located in Indianapolis on the Indiana
University-Purdue University campus. Indianapolis is the 13th largest
city in the nation and the state capital, consistently ranking as one of
the cleanest and safest cities in the country. Forbes magazine recently
listed Indianapolis as one of the 10 best downtowns in the country, with
a cost of living below the national average. Please visit
http://medicine.iupui.edu/AboutIndy/ to learn more about Indianapolis.

[RESPONSIBILITIES]{.caps}

Education and Access Services Responsibilities

-   Works with faculty to integrate evidence-based medicine and
    information literacy into the medical school curriculum.
-   Participates in instructional services, including designing
    face-to-face and online instructional materials and teaching
    classes.
-   Coordinates ongoing training and support for library staff on
    instructional design and medical education trends and initiatives.
-   Advocates and promotes the value of library instruction services
    within the institution.
-   Demonstrates a commitment to outstanding public service, initiative,
    creativity, and enthusiasm for teaching, learning, and working
    collaboratively.
-   Serves as a liaison to academic and clinical units such as Internal
    Medicine, Emergency Medicine, and a regional [IUSM]{.caps} campus.
-   Serves on Indiana University School of Medicine curriculum
    committees.
-   Provides training and guidelines to other public services staff for
    reference and circulation services.
-   Maintains and reports statistics as needed.
-   Supervision
-   Supervises Access Services Manager and access services staff
    members.
-   Supervises, hires, and evaluates the work of up to 2 student
    reference assistants.
-   Coordinates with Access Services Manager to streamline and manage
    reference and circulation services.
-   Acts as the main back up to the Access Services Manager.
-   Participates in a team approach to providing prompt and effective
    reference, consultation, and instructional services to students,
    faculty, and staff.
-   Cultivates partnerships and collaborates with university faculty on
    projects including teaching, grants, manuscripts, paper, or poster
    presentations.
-   Contributes to the overall development and innovation of the library
    and the profession by participating in library, campus, university,
    state, regional or national meetings, committees, workgroups and
    task forces or by representing the library on consortia.
-   Develops a full network of contacts within assigned liaison areas
    (departments/units, institutes, regional [IUSM]{.caps} campuses, and
    centers) and anticipates and meets their information needs.
-   Identifies opportunities for library partnerships.
-   Works with others to develop and revise programs to respond to
    changing information needs.
-   Manages and prioritizes time effectively, appropriately balancing
    job responsibilities, seeking clarification or assistance from the
    supervisor as issues arise.
-   Maintains current knowledge of the trends and issues in higher
    education, scholarly communication, research practice, and health
    care.
-   Pursues an active and ongoing career plan in the areas of job
    performance, professional development/research support and service.
    Standards are outlined in the [IUPUI]{.caps} Promotion & Tenure
    Guidelines:
    http://academicaffairs.iupui.edu/PromotionTenure/[IUPUI]{.caps}-Guidelines/Resources.
-   Designs and implements a plan for continuing education, continuing
    professional development and actively contributes to the development
    of health sciences librarianship through scholarly and service
    activities.
-   Participates on other projects and initiatives as assigned
  
Required:

-   [ALA]{.caps}-accredited Master's degree or advanced degree in
    relevant field.
-   Two years of professional experience in a health sciences library or
    equivalent experience.
-   Academic coursework in health sciences/health sciences information
    and/or work experience in health sciences librarianship.
-   Experience in library instruction or other teaching experience,
    preferably at the college level.
-   Ability to work in a collegial, collaborative work environment and
    maintain positive professional working relationships with faculty
    members, supervisor, and peers.
-   Demonstrated record of designing projects and concluding them in a
    timely fashion.
-   Record of scholarship, teaching, and/or active membership in a
    professional organization.
-   Excellent communication, presentation, and interpersonal skills.
-   Strong customer service skills and an enthusiastic public services
    orientation

Preferred:

-   Additional degree in health-related or sciences discipline.
-   Demonstrated knowledge of medical education topics and trends such
    as evidence-based medicine, entrustable professional activities, and
    competence-based education.
-   Experience with supervising staff and/or students in a library
    setting.
-   Coursework or experience in adult education, instructional design,
    or educational technology.
-   Demonstrated interest in library research in teaching, curriculum
    design, or information literacy initiatives.
-   Knowledge of and interest in integrating emerging technologies into
    instructional and/or reference services.
-   Experience with distance education issues (i.e. course management
    systems and video tutorial creation).
-   Experience with conducting expert searching and/or systematic
    reviews.
