+++
nid = "7519"
jid = "00468"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-05-22 14:52"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7519"
title = "Information Research Specialist "
employer = "Harvard University, Harvard Business School"
employerurl = "http://www.hbs.edu/Pages/default.aspx"
postdate = "2017-05-08"
archivedate = "2017-05-22"
draft = "false"
+++
The Information Research Specialist is a valued member of Baker Research
Services (BRS), a team of librarians, MBAs, statisticians, and
economists with deep expertise working with licensed and publicly
available data sources. BRS provides support to Harvard Business School
faculty and doctoral students across the research spectrum---from
advising on best resources for a project, to managing research projects
from beginning to end, to finding innovative ways to communicate
research findings, and more.

Learn more about our services at: 
<https://www.library.hbs.edu/Services/Services-for-Faculty-Staff/Baker-Research-Services> 
<https://www.library.hbs.edu/Services/Services-for-Doctoral-Students/Baker-Research-Services-for-Doctoral-Students> 


**Working Relationships:** 

-   Reports to the Senior Manager, Baker Research Services.
-   Works closely with HBS faculty, doctoral students, and research
    associates.
-   Contributes to the goals and priorities of Baker Research Services
    and Knowledge and Library Services. 
-   Works closely with subject matter, content, and technical experts
    across Knowledge and Library Services, HBS and the Harvard
    University community.

**Responsibilities:**

The Information Research Specialist in Baker Research Services:

-   Supports the creation of original intellectual property by Harvard
    Business School (HBS) faculty and doctoral students in form of
    scholarly articles and books, cases, conference presentations,
    course materials, and testimony.
-   Consults with researchers to determine their needs; participates in
    the design of research projects to satisfy those needs; and acts
    with independence and initiative to implement project designs
    efficiently.
-   Accesses and extracts information from data in a variety of formats
    and from a variety of sources (e.g., web, primary materials, and
    secondary materials) for literature searches, research data
    projects, case updates, etc. 
-   Explains data to untrained users; prepares informative and
    illustrative exhibits and explanations; plans, conducts, and
    presents results of analytical procedures, possibly including
    statistical analysis.
-   Participates in Baker Library and Harvard Library committees,
    working groups, events, etc.
  
Basic Qualifications:

-   Masters degree or equivalent graduate education in
    Library/Information Science, Economics, Statistics, Business
    Administration or other relevant discipline.  
-   Minimum 3+ years experience applicable work experience

Advanced Qualifications:

-   Experience with citation management tools such as Endnote, Refworks,
    Zotero.
-   ​Proficiency with data visualization tools (Tableau, D3, R) and
    related coding languages a plus
-   Broad knowledge of business topics including corporate finance,
    accounting, business history, etc.; solid understanding of business
    and economics concepts and related quantitative measures. 
-   Expert knowledge of business information sources---standard
    third-party business databases including, but not limited to
    Bloomberg, CRSP, CapIQ/Research Insight/Compustat, Datastream,
    Factset, and Thomson One.
-   Experience with literature databases, particularly business
    literature databases (Factiva, EBSCO, LexisNexis); tools and
    strategies for searching through them; organizing voluminous search
    results; and integrating them with data from other sources.
-   Intermediate to advanced knowledge of Excel and/or other analytical
    tools such as SAS and Stata.
-   Highly-developed skills and creativity in information research,
    organization, presentation and delivery; excellent critical thinking
    skills; superb customer service. Able to produce timely, high
    quality results under pressure. 
-   Demonstrated record of managing client relationships, setting
    priorities, meeting multiple deadlines and sharing workloads and
    projects with a research team.  
-   Demonstrated ability to work well with others. Ability to
    collaborate and contribute to group projects and participate on
    committees and working groups within the department, across
    Knowledge and Library Services, and across the Harvard Library.
-   Second Masters degree in related field desirable.
-   Work experience in an academic environment or a special library is
    desired.
