+++
nid = "7568"
jid = "00491"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-08-18 14:03"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7568"
title = "Data Mining Course Developer Position"
employer = "University of Notre Dame"
employerurl = "https://www.nd.edu/"
postdate = "2017-07-20"
archivedate = "2017-08-18"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Notre Dame's new online data science M.S. program
seeks an experienced and engaging instructor to teach a 3 credit,
graduate level course in Data Mining in the Spring 2018 semester. In
addition to teaching the live sessions, the instructor will work with
the Program Director and a team of faculty, learning designers, and
multimedia specialists to review and supplement the existing
asynchronous materials for the course (e.g. videos, assignments, and
screencasts).

*Data Mining*
Building on the quantitative foundations established in the first
semester, and utilizing the programming language Python, this course
introduces students to the entire process and lifecycle of data science,
including data acquisition, data understanding, data quality analysis,
relevant machine learning methods, communicating results, aspects of
deploying and monitoring the models, and finally the ethical
considerations in managing and processing data. Throughout the course,
students implement and experiment with the concepts and methods of the
data science process, and apply them to real world datasets. Finally,
students engage with the ethical and regulatory challenges of data
science in the contemporary business context. Spring Semester. (3
credits)

*Format and instructor role*
Data Mining is a 3 credit course delivered fully online, blending
asynchronous study with weekly
online video-conference seminar/recitation. There are two sections of
the course (each capped at
20 students) which meet for 90 minutes each week. Some asynchronous
courseware,
assignments, and documentation for the course have been created. The
instructor will guide the
students through active learning and discussion in synchronous sessions,
implement the
asynchronous courseware and design, provide guidance and feedback on
assignments, offer
regular virtual office hours, evaluate student work, and support
students in the learning process.
The instructor will also interact with program faculty and enrolled
students as an energetic,
supportive and professional advocate for student learning and career
success in the field of data
science. The effort required of the instructor is equivalent to that of
an on-campus professional
graduate course.

  
-   PhD in a quantitative, technical, or computational field is required
    with experience in data science or machine learning.
-   Evidence of successful teaching experience at the University level
    is required.
-   Experience teaching in an online environment is preferred.
-   Industry experience as a data scientist or academic experience in
    data science is required.
-   Physical presence is South Bend is not required.
