+++
nid = "7525"
jid = "00473"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-05-25 08:06"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7525"
title = "Data Scientist / Data Curator "
employer = "The World Bank"
employerurl = "http://www.worldbank.org/"
postdate = "2017-05-23"
archivedate = "2017-05-25"
draft = "false"
+++
This position will be based in the Data Management and Services team of
the Development Data Group (DECDG). DECDG houses the World Bank's main
data team, together with the Secretariat for the Data Council. Its
mission is to put data to work for development by increasing country
capacity to produce, disseminate, and use data of all kinds; improving
accessibility, management, and dissemination of the WBG's own data
assets; and by producing high quality statistical indicators and data
products to help improve development outcomes. The work of the
department calls for extensive partnership with other international
organizations, with member countries' statistical offices, and with
regions, global practices, and other units.  

Within DECDG, the Data Management and Services team produces high
quality data outputs, including the World Development Indicators
database, various subnational databases; and the World Bank's Open data
catalog. The team also manages business processes and data quality
procedures related to time series data collection and dissemination, and
a portfolio of key data management and dissemination platforms. The team
also produces http://data.worldbank.org.  

**Duties and Responsibilities**
DECDG is seeking to recruit a short term consultant to work with the
Data Management and Services team, within the Development Indicators and
Data Services cluster. Specific duties and accountabilities include the
following:

Data Management and Quality assurance:

-    Create, document, and maintain software tools (Python and R
    packages) that others will use.
-   Work with topical data administrators of the WDI database to
    maintain efficient data quality procedures based on international
    standards and recognized best practice.
-   Assist in ingesting data from multiple sources (relational
    databases, APIs, web, etc.)
-   Perform functional tasks related to the World Development Indicators
    database and production processes, and support dissemination of
    related data and data products.
-   Solve any routine data-related problem you encounter using modern
    programming languages, libraries and tools
-   Be the liaison between Bank groups and DECDG team members in adding,
    documenting and maintaining new datasets to the Open Data Catalog
-   Work with standard codes, country classifications, indicators
    definition, source, and methodology metadata. Participate in
    improving the metadata compiled and disseminated by DECDG.
-   Contribute to DECDG's efforts to enhance data dissemination through
    blogs and data visualizations.
-   Participate in regular team activities aimed at renewing and
    improving data products, systems, access facilities, and web-based
    tools.
-   Communicating with the team leader work status, foreseeable
    problems, and processes.
  
**Selection Criteria**
Master's Degree with a minimum of 2 years' experience or Bachelor's
Degree with a minimum of 3 years' experience in economics, international
relations, statistics, mathematics, social sciences, data curation or
related field. 

Required:

-   Statistical literacy: You don't need a PhD in Quantitative Methods
    (no problem if you do!) but you need to be good at responsibly
    analyzing and presenting data using the right tools and methods.
    Expertise in time-series data management would be an advantage.
-   Coding: You should be able to solve any routine data-related problem
    you encounter using modern programming languages, libraries and
    tools, and you should be comfortable developing robust, well
    documented software tools that others will use and maintain. It is
    also a big plus if you are familiar with version control (Git) and
    collaborative development (Github).
-   Data wrangling: You should possess outstanding data wrangling
    skills, including experience working with relational databases
    (SQL), semi-structured data (JSON, XML), and unstructured data
    (text)
-   Communications: written, oral, & visual. Whether it's documenting
    where exactly a piece of data comes from and how it's been produced,
    or creating charts and visualizations that explain an issue clearly,
    you've got to be good at engaging others. If selected, you will have
    to interact effectively with a range of clients and colleagues.
-   Problem solving: You should be a creative problem solver with strong
    skills in design and problem formulation. We expect you to rapidly
    analyze, interpret and integrate information from varied sources to
    formulate clear conclusions and recommendations.
-   Positive attitude: You are enthusiastic about development work, and
    you are able to take initiatives.

Preferred:

-   Languages and tools: Experience with Python, R, their most common
    libraries are especially useful for working with data and
    statistics. For visualization we use a lot of ggplot2, Tableau,
    Datawrapper and Excel, along with custom javascript and libraries
    such as D3 and Highcharts.
-   Topical knowledge: Knowledge of one or more domains of development
    data such as economic statistics, demographic data, gender and
    social statistics, or other topics would be an advantage.
-   Open data: Knowledge of open data standards and technological
    solutions a plus
-   Data curation: Experience with cataloging and metadata standards a
    plus.
