+++
nid = "7557"
jid = "00488"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-07-10 08:08"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7557"
title = "AEA Data Editor "
employer = "American Economic Association"
employerurl = "https://www.aeaweb.org/"
postdate = "2017-07-06"
archivedate = "2017-07-10"
draft = "false"
+++
The AEA journals were early leaders in requiring posting of data and
code used for published papers. This has enhanced research transparency
and reproducibility, and the data collection has been a valuable
resource. Many other journals in economics have now emulated the AEA
data availability policy. 

At the same time, the AEA believes the current system could be improved.
For example:

-   Data are sometimes incomplete and often difficult for re-use by a
    third party.
-   Many papers use proprietary data for which there are restrictions on
    posting, and are exempt from the policy. This could be improved
    by: (i) systematically tracking proprietary data sets and the
    associated data use agreements; (ii) making sure posted code is
    sufficient to replicate the results once a researcher obtains access
    to the data; (iii) giving authors stronger incentives to get
    permission to share data.
-   Posted code often does not run or does not actually replicate the
    results.
-   Authors often post only the final processed data but not code,
    steps, or provenance of the data.
-   Documentation is often incomplete or unclear.
-   Current data security and privacy protections for data may not be
    sufficiently strong.


More broadly, best practices for reproducible research have been
advancing rapidly. The AEA believes this is a pivotal moment for the
profession to remain at the forefront of this movement and adopt best
practices that will strengthen the credibility of economic research in
the years to come. The AEA is committed to have the AEA journals play a
leadership role in this effort. 

The duties of the Data Editor will be to:

-   Design, in collaboration with the AEA journal editors and the AEA
    Executive Committee, a comprehensive strategy for archiving and
    promoting the curation of data and code that guarantees to the
    extent possible reproducibility of research and addresses the
    challenges above.
-   Determine the staff and computing resources necessary to implement
    the strategy.
-   Oversee the hiring of staff and implementation of the new policy
  
The Data Editor must be an established leader in quantitative research,
with a PhD in economics, data science or a related field and extensive
experience relevant to the duties above.

Ideally, the editor would have both editorial experience and research
experience with government administrative, commercial or other
proprietary data.

We expect that the Data Editor will retain their current affiliation,
and that the time required for this position will be broadly similar to
that of other Editor and Co-Editor positions at AEA journals. The Editor
will report to the AEA Executive Committee.

