+++
nid = "7523"
jid = "00472"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-05-22 19:38"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7523"
title = "Science & Engineering Data Librarian"
employer = "Libraries at UW-Madison"
employerurl = "https://www.library.wisc.edu/"
postdate = "2017-05-22"
archivedate = "2017-05-22"
draft = "false"
+++
The UW-Madison Libraries seek an innovative, collaborative, outgoing and
service-oriented librarian to join a dynamic and collegial team of
librarians at our Science & Engineering Libraries (SEL) in expanding
research and information services to the UW-Madison science and
engineering community. As a member of the Engineering Liaison Team, the
Science & Engineering Librarian will take a team approach to engaging
with faculty, staff and students to develop and provide innovative
research services. The Science & Engineering Librarian will also play a
key role in developing support for research workflows and data
management in collaboration with the Digital Curation Coordinator and
other campus partners, such as Research Data Services.

This position will have the opportunity to impact the future of library
services to the UW-Madison science and engineering community, especially
geared towards librarians with interests and/or experiences in the
following:
- engineering/scientific information
- scholarly communication and research data management
- outreach and instruction

This position will be based in Wendt Commons Library and report to the
Director of Science & Engineering Libraries.

The Libraries at the University of Wisconsin-Madison are dedicated to
the practices of social justice, diversity, equality, and respect among
our staff, students, collections, and services. We strive to overcome
historical and divisive biases in our society and embrace diverse points
of view as assets to the fabric of our community. All positions will be
called on to contribute to building this environment
  
Required:

-   Master's degree in library or information science from an ALA
    (American Library Association) accredited program.
-   Undergraduate and/or graduate degree in a science-related area is
    desirable.
-   Demonstrated knowledge and awareness of emerging trends and best
    practices in science and/or engineering librarianship.
-   Demonstrated instructional experience, with some classroom teaching
    preferred.
-   Demonstrated ability to work both independently and collaboratively
    on teams.
-   Excellent oral, written and interpersonal skills.

Preferred:

-   Articulates a strong user-centered services philosophy and genuine
    interest in the science and/or engineering research community.
    (Strongly desired)
-   Demonstrated understanding of current issues surrounding scholarly
    communication, data management and research workflows. (Strongly
    desired)
-   Demonstrated knowledge of and/or interest in using emerging
    technologies to enhance delivery of information services.
-   STEM-related background and/or experience working with the
    scientific research community.
-   Initiative, flexibility and the ability to creatively adapt to a
    changing environment.
-   1-2 years of experience in an academic or special library, or higher
    education setting.
-   Demonstrated outreach experience developing working partnerships
    with clientele and communities.
-   Demonstrated project management skills and ability to manage
    multiple priorities.
