+++
nid = "7558"
jid = "00489"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-07-10 08:11"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7558"
title = "Data Services Librarian"
employer = "University of Colorado Boulder Libraries"
employerurl = "http://www.colorado.edu/libraries/"
postdate = "2017-07-06"
archivedate = "2017-07-10"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Colorado Boulder (CU Boulder) Libraries invites
applications from collaborative and innovative candidates for the
position of Data Services Librarian, a tenure-stream position in the
University Libraries' Department of Open and Digital Scholarship
Services. The Data Services Librarian provides leadership and support
for a range of services related to accessing, using, manipulating, and
managing quantitative data. With a focus on science and engineering
faculty and students, this position partners with users and producers of
quantitative data and helps to identify, develop, implement, and assess
services to meet the data needs of the CU Boulder community. The Data
Services Librarian provides outreach, consultation, and instruction on
such topics as finding and accessing particular types of data, using
statistical software and tools (e.g., SPSS, SAS, R), and preparing data
for analysis. Working closely with subject librarians, this position
helps to acquire and promote access to data of value to CU Boulder
research and instruction. The Data Services Librarian fosters
relationships with departments, research institutes/centers, and
laboratories in order to maximize support across campus. As part of a
highly collaborative team in the newly formed Open and Digital
Scholarship Services Department within the Libraries, the Data Services
Librarian actively contributes to the continued development of policies,
procedures, and best practices for data acquisition, access, management,
and curation.
  
**Required Qualifications:**

Please address each of these qualifications in your application
materials:

-   Demonstrated ability to cultivate and advocate for an environment of
    diversity and inclusion.
-   Master's degree in Library and Information Science from an
    ALA-accredited library program.
-   Experience and/or coursework involving use and analysis of
    quantitative data.
-   Demonstrated commitment to a user-centered approach to data
    services. 
-   Familiarity with one or more statistical packages (e.g., SPSS, SAS,
    R).
-   Knowledge of key sources of quantitative data in at least one
    scientific or engineering discipline.
-   Excellent interpersonal, presentation, and communication skills.
-   Demonstrated initiative and flexibility to carry out project-based
    work, both independently and collaboratively.
-   Potential for research, scholarly work, and professional service.


**Desirable Qualifications:**

Evidence of any of the following will enhance a candidacy:

-   One year or more of relevant experience in an academic or research
    library.
-   Demonstrated experience developing and/or implementing policies,
    procedures, or best practices for data acquisition, access,
    management, or curation.
-   Experience providing outreach, consultation, and instruction at the
    university level.
-   Commitment to the value of open and sustainable access to research
    and scholarship.
-   Experience working with science and engineering faculty and
    students.
