+++
nid = "7590"
jid = "00503"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-10-03 08:54"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7590"
title = "Research Librarian for Engineering & Entrepreneurship"
employer = "NC State University"
employerurl = "https://www.ncsu.edu/"
postdate = "2017-10-02"
archivedate = "2017-10-03"
draft = "false"
+++
The NCSU Libraries invites applications and nominations for the position
of Research Librarian for Engineering &
Entrepreneurship in the Research Engagement department. The department
engages with faculty members,
researchers, and students across the full lifecycle of research and
scholarship, offering dynamic services,
spaces, and technologies to enable all forms of research, discovery, and
learning, and connecting faculty and
graduate students with a full suite of resources for research and
teaching productivity. The department's
librarians collaborate with faculty and students on emerging
technologies for research, visualization, data curation
and management, bibliometrics, and computational analysis in an evolving
scholarly communication
environment. They build programs and partnerships that enhance research
productivity and competitiveness,
support interdisciplinary collaboration, foster inclusive spaces for
early career researchers, and conduct research
consultations. The position is based at the James B. Hunt Jr. Library
and reports to the Department Head,
Research Engagement.
Responsibilities

-   Serves as liaison to the Colleges of Engineering and Textiles, the
    Entrepreneurship Initiative, and other affinity STEM departments;
    plans and delivers innovative, responsive library services to
    faculty and students in those disciplines.
-   Provides expert services for faculty, staff, and students across the
    research lifecycle including information discovery, data curation,
    visualization, research computing, and scholarly communication.
-   Identifies trends in research practices in engineering, textiles,
    and entrepreneurship and recommends strategies for aligning library
    services accordingly.
-   Fosters collaboration and interdisciplinary interactions among
    faculty and other stakeholders by supporting and collaborating with
    interdisciplinary research teams.
-   Provides instruction on research skills and data literacy to
    students in the sciences and engineering and engages in ongoing
    development and implementation of innovative pedagogical practices.
-   Collaborates with Collections & Research Strategy librarians in
    collection development and assessment activities.
-   In collaboration with research administration at NC State, advises
    researchers in evaluation of grant opportunities including meeting
    funder and university requirements for providing public access to
    publications and data resulting from research.
-   Works closely with library colleagues to support research and
    scholarship by providing consultation on using scholarly resources,
    technologies, and the NCSU Libraries' technology-rich spaces.
-   Participates in library planning; serves on library-wide committees,
    task forces, and teams.
-   NCSU librarians are expected to be active professionally and to
    contribute to developments in the field.
  
**Required**

-   ALA-accredited MLS, MIS, or equivalent advanced degree.
-   Academic preparation or relevant work experience in engineering or
    related discipline.
-   Demonstrated success in faculty and student engagement.
-   Knowledge of the needs of faculty and researchers across the
    lifecycle of research, teaching, and learning.
-   Excellent interpersonal skills; ability to communicate effectively,
    both orally and in writing.
-   Ability to work effectively both as a team member and independently.
-   Ability to be proactive, flexible, and collaborative, working across
    multiple locations in an ambiguous, futureoriented
-   environment, and to respond effectively to changing needs and
    priorities.
-   Commitment to fostering a diverse educational and professional
    environment and demonstration of the ability
-   to work with a diverse population.
-   Evidence of ability for ongoing professional development and
    contribution.

** **

**Preferred**

-   Degree in engineering or related discipline.
-   Experience or interest in supporting entrepreneurial business plans
    through activities such as patent searching and market research.
-   Awareness of open research practices and incentives.
-   Knowledge of emerging research services trends including data
    science, visualization, impact metrics, or research computing.
