+++
nid = "7582"
jid = "00495"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-10-03 06:38"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7582"
title = "Bodleian Business Librarian"
employer = "University of Oxford"
employerurl = "http://www.ox.ac.uk/"
postdate = "2017-08-24"
archivedate = "2017-10-03"
draft = "false"
+++
The Bodleian Business Librarian is a key role within the Saïd Business
School and the Bodleian Libraries, and is responsible for ensuring the
delivery of information resources and library services in the fields of
business, management and finance at the highest level.  This includes
the provision of extensive online resources, the development of
innovative, user-focused services, and the management of library staff,
budgets and reading room facilities.

**Responsibilities/duties**

*Policy and Planning*

-   Propose strategies for the development of the library and
    information service on a medium and long term basis, undertake
    structured and widespread consultation, and put the strategies into
    effect.  The postholder is expected to ensure that the needs of
    faculty, researchers, students and other stakeholders are fully
    taken into account in strategic objectives for the library and
    information service.
-   Ensure that an efficient and effective library and information
    service is provided to all users of the Sainsbury Library and
    associated library sites (currently Egrove Park), in person and
    remotely, and to review, modify and enhance these services as
    needed.  The School wishes to exemplify leading-edge practice in the
    delivery of library services, taking full account of user needs,
    value for money and budgetary considerations.
-   Contribute to the development of policy and planning for the
    Bodleian Social Sciences Libraries, and take part in Bodleian and
    Divisional-wide projects and services as appropriate.
-   Participate in a number of committees including the School's Senior
    Management Team, the Bodleian Social Sciences Libraries' Management
    Group and the Sainsbury Library Committee.

 *Staff, Budget and Operational Management*

-    Oversee the recruitment, management and development of the
    Sainsbury Library staff and those providing collections and
    instructional materials at Egrove Park.
-   Manage the budgets associated with the Sainsbury Library and
    forecast medium and long term budget needs. 
-   Liaise with the Dean, and with key staff within the School and the
    Bodleian Libraries, to support fund-raising initiatives.
-   Provide a welcoming library environment that is conducive to the
    different learning and research needs of students, researchers,
    staff and visitors.
-   Comply with a range of administrative policies and procedures
    concerning personnel, finance, health and safety and estates
    matters. 

 *Information Resources and Services*

-   Develop research collections and associated services for business,
    management and finance.  This includes building close working
    relationships with academic staff, maintaining up-to-date knowledge
    of information and data products and negotiating with suppliers.
-   Note: as well as providing expertise and support for finance and
    business databases to the School, the Sainsbury Library also
    provides assistance to the University more broadly as part of the
    Bodleian Data Library service.
-   Oversee the timely and cost-effective delivery of online content for
    the School's teaching programmes.  This involves copyright-clearance
    services, extensive liaison with course administrators and working
    to tight deadlines.
-   Provide vibrant induction and instructional programmes that meet the
    needs of research, teaching and learning within the School.

 *Professional Issues and the Wider Information Environment*

-    Keep abreast of the legislative, technological and educational
    trends that impact on the library and information environment, and
    advise the School on these as necessary.
-   Provide expertise in copyright and licensing matters for the
    Bodleian Social Sciences Libraries and guide the activities of the
    'Copyright Practitioners Group' in their delivery of digitisation
    and copyright-clearance services to the Social Sciences Division.
-   As part of a network of contacts led by the Open Access Subject
    Librarian, provide support and advocacy for Open Access.  This
    includes familiarity with funder requirements, publisher policies
    and open access services.
-   Participate in professional activities and business information
    networks at national and international levels.

** Other duties**

-   Working on some Bank Holidays
-   Participate in a regular Annual Review
-   Undertake any necessary training identified
-   Comply with health and safety regulations
-   Comply with the policies and procedures set out in the Handbook for
    Academic Related Staff
-   Any other duties that may be required from time to time commensurate
    with the grade of the job

 

The Bodleian Libraries reserves the right to make reasonable amendments
to the job description in consultation with the post holder at any time.
  
**Essential**

-    A good undergraduate degree and a postgraduate qualification in
    librarianship or information science;
-   Significant experience of business information provision;
-   An informed commitment to the support of university teaching,
    research and scholarship;
-    Experience of managing a library including forecasting demand and
    evaluating services;
-   Excellent communication and interpersonal skills including
    experience of building effective working relationships with faculty
    and/or business practitioners;
-   Current knowledge of copyright and licensing for the document supply
    and educational support activities of libraries;
-   Experience of successful decision-making, problem-solving, planning
    and organising;
-   Experience of successfully managing staff. 

** Desirable**

-   Proven negotiating skills;
-   Experience of training and public speaking;
-   Experience of budgetary control and financial management.
