+++
nid = "7599"
jid = "00508"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-11-13 07:57"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7599"
title = "Data Science Facilitator"
employer = "University of Wisconsin-Madison"
employerurl = "https://www.wisc.edu/"
postdate = "2017-11-08"
archivedate = "2017-11-13"
draft = "false"
+++
The Data Science Hub at the Wisconsin Institute for Discovery (WID)
provides a focal point for programs dedicated to research and
application of modern techniques to the management, storage, and
analysis of complex data sets.

The Data Science Hub (DS Hub) is seeking an individual to advance the
research activities of faculty members, students, and staff in a broad
range of scholarly disciplines that rely on data science methods. The
Data Science Facilitator will consult with researchers on campus to
recommend appropriate solutions to data science problems impeding their
research. The successful candidate will gain a wide range of skills at
this job and will have the opportunity to work with experts in a range
of research areas and data-centric technologies through Data Science Hub
partnerships.

This position will work closely with personnel at the Data Science Hub
and its on-campus partners, which include but are not limited to: the
Advanced Computing Initiative, the Bioinformatics Resource Center, the
Biometry program, the Center for High Throughput Computing, the Center
for Predictive Computational Phenotyping, the Humanities Research
Bridge, Research Data Services, the Social Sciences Computing
Cooperative, and many others.
  
At least two years of experience in a data- and/or compute intensive
research area is required.

Qualified candidates will:

-   demonstrate an appreciation for a range of data-intensive research
    and be experienced in at least one research domain such as life
    sciences, physical sciences, social sciences, or the humanities.
-   have strong oral and written communication skills, with attention to
    interpersonal relationships and professionalism.
-   have a positive attitude and demonstrate a history of
    self-motivation
-   demonstrate strong abilties in critical analysis and creative
    problem solving
-   be able to work independently and as part of a dynamic
    interdisciplinary team
-   possess a demonstrated interest and prior experience in elevating
    the work of others
-   possess basic skills with tools for data curation, analysis, and/or
    visualization, including: scripting languages, databases,
    visualization software and/or platforms, use of large-scale
    computing systems, etc.

Ideal candidates will demonstrate experience applying appropriate
strategies, tools, and computing technologies to the data science
aspects of research problems.

In addition to the core facilitator role, there may be opportunities to
specialize in one of a diverse set of areas. Knowledge/experience in one
or more of the following areas will be a plus, but is not essential:

-   prior work as a data scientist (or similar position) whether in
    industry or academic research
-   significant experience and demonstrated interest in education,
    outreach, mentoring, consulting, community-building and/or formal
    communication activities
-   contribution to a Software Carpenty or Data Carpentry workshop or
    other data- or computation-focused training efforts.
-   experience using bioinformatics software tools and technologies
-   experience applying machine learning methods to tackle data
    challenges
