+++
nid = "7530"
jid = "00478"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-06-07 06:46"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7530"
title = "GIS and Data Visualization Specialist"
employer = "The Department of Urban Studies and Planning at the School of Architecture and Planning, MIT"
employerurl = "https://dusp.mit.edu/"
postdate = "2017-05-31"
archivedate = "2017-06-07"
draft = "false"
+++
**Position:**  Full time multi-year position as a Geoprocessing and Data
Visualization Specialist starting July 2017.  This is a 12-month
appointment with the possibility of extension for two or more years.

**Description:**  The Department of Urban Studies and Planning at the
School of Architecture and Planning, MIT is seeking a full-time staff
person to assist with various GIS, data visualization and graphics
training needs of the department.  The staff/specialist will assist
faculty and students across the department with GIS, Data Visualization,
graphics and media related projects. The Specialist will provide
teaching support which includes: developing materials and exercises for
online tutorials and exercises on the Department's DUSPviz website;
coordination of workshops; extensive involvement in GIS instruction and
development of visualization and related media and graphic
representation skills; assisting with the development of GIS courses,
and coordinating data for teaching and research.  The Specialist will
also work closely with the School's Computer Resource Organization
(CRON) and the MIT Library GIS lab to ensure coordination and
compatibility with School and Institute software, hardware, and
geo-processing services.
  
**Minimum Qualifications:**  A graduate (master's) degree in planning,
architecture, landscape architecture, geography or related fields is
required. Minimum 2 years of professional experience using GIS in a
professional or research environment. We are especially interested in
candidates that can demonstrate familiarity with the connection between
design and social sciences. Candidates should be able to create
compelling visuals while also understanding the statistical
underpinnings of the data. Candidates should be familiar with database
systems, such as MS-Access, PostgreSQL, and PostGIS, and comfortable
working with statistical packages such as R. While the main focus of the
work will be using ESRI products, we are also looking for candidates
that have familiarity with open source geospatial software and mapping
tools, such as QGIS, Mapbox, Leaflet, and CARTO.  Ability to use Adobe
Creative Suite and knowledge of web site development is also essential.
Also desired but not mandatory, knowledge of architecture programs such
as CAD or Rhino. 
