+++
nid = "7552"
jid = "00483"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-07-10 06:54"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7552"
title = "Biosciences Liaison Librarian and Scientific Data Curator"
employer = "University of Minnesota"
employerurl = "https://twin-cities.umn.edu/"
postdate = "2017-06-12"
archivedate = "2017-07-10"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Minnesota Libraries invites applications for a
creative, innovative, and enthusiastic science librarian. We seek
applicants who combine skills in outreach, technology, and subject
expertise to help shape the future of library services.
Interdisciplinary and collaborative research and learning figure
prominently in the University of Minnesota's priorities and are a focus
of this position.  The successful candidate will serve as liaison to
designated academic departments and research centers in the biological
sciences, forging new relationships with faculty and students and
creating new services that respond to trends in scientific research in
those disciplines. The incumbent will also serve as Research Services
Coordinator for the ABES department and as a curator for scientific data
in the Data Repository for the University of Minnesota (DRUM), working
closely with the Data Management/Curation Lead, the Research Data
Services Team, and several disciplinary specialists to provide
University Libraries data management and curation services.  

 **Responsibilities*
-  of the Biosciences Librarian include contributing
to the development of data-related repository activities, workflows, and
policies, executing technical processes involved in managing the
lifecycle of digital datasets in order to maintain the integrity of and
access to archived datasets; e.g., data transformation projects, serving
as functional expert for consultations with UMN researchers on data
issues and services (e.g., data management planning) and the development
and delivery of training and instructional materials on data curation,
processing submissions for depositing and archiving datasets in the
digital repository, developing strong connections with a diverse
population of faculty and students to determine and address service
needs, seeking opportunities for collaborative partnerships with
designated departments and research centers, providing research
lifecycle support and leadership, including shared service development
in areas such as data management planning, research networking, and
personal information management, supporting teaching and learning needs
of assigned departments, including the Biology Teaching & Learning
program, selecting and managing collections in all formats for assigned
subject areas, providing leadership for and contribute to library-wide
projects, and contributing to the knowledge base of the profession
through research, publication, and professional engagement.
  
**Required:**

-   Master's degree from an American Library Association accredited
    library school or equivalent combination of advanced degree and
    relevant experience.
-   Demonstrated understanding of scientific research methods and data
    collection processes.
-   Knowledge of data repositories, preservation, and curation concepts
    and their application.
-   Facility with technology and its application in academic contexts.
-   Understanding of teaching, learning, and research trends in the
    sciences.
-   Excellent communication, presentation, and interpersonal skills.
-   Demonstrated creativity, initiative, and self-direction.
-   Ability to respond effectively to changing needs and priorities.
-   Ability to work collaboratively with colleagues and library users in
    a service-oriented, research-intensive environment.

**Preferred:**

-   Undergraduate or graduate science degree.
-   Experience working with data in a research setting.
-   Understanding of collection development issues and processes.
-   Education and/or training in research data management best practices
    and techniques.
-   Familiarity with metadata standards, creation, schemas, or
    management.
-   Knowledge of software packages and file formats for collecting and
    analyzing scientific data, such as R, SQL, MATLAB, Python, as well
    as tools and workflows for supporting reproducible research.  
-   Relevant discipline-specific experience in an academic or research
    library in a research-intensive environment.
-   Understanding of trends in academic research support and expertise
    in providing research lifecycle support.
-   Demonstrated experience working effectively to support diverse
    populations of library users.
-   Experience in developing and delivering instruction in an academic
    library environment.
