+++
nid = "7588"
jid = "00501"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-10-03 06:59"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7588"
title = "Data Services Specialist"
employer = "British Library"
employerurl = "https://www.bl.uk/"
postdate = "2017-09-15"
archivedate = "2017-10-03"
draft = "false"
+++
The Data Services Specialist will have a key role in supporting the
British Library to implement its new Research Data
Strategy <http://bit.ly/BLDataStrategy> . As part of a team developing
and delivering various data services, the post holder will support the
data needs of research users who may be commercial, private or academic
researchers, as well as the British Library's own staff. This post has
primary responsibility for day-to-day management of the British
Library's DataCite UK service, which will include provision of support
and events for users; liaison with DataCite and its working groups; and
engaging various UK organisations with DataCite UK and data citation.
The role will be central to supporting British Library staff with
research data management and reporting on developments in the data
landscape to the Research Services department, which includes similar
roles focusing on open access, discovery and repository services.

* *The ideal candidate will be able to demonstrate knowledge of the
data management landscape, including policies, technologies and
procedures, and an understanding of metadata and persistent identifiers.
They will be able to confidently communicate those concepts to expert as
well as novice users and stakeholders. The successful applicant will
have recent experience working in data management or data curation and
demonstrate an understanding of the role of libraries in the data
landscape.

**Key areas of responsibility**

-   Supporting the Data Services Lead in the implementation of the
    British Library's Data Strategy in conjunction with other British
    Library staff involved in data initiatives; including prototyping
    and evaluation of data-related tools and resources and
    implementation of data management processes.
-   Administering the UK DataCite service including maintenance of
    client accounts, organisation of events and representation as
    required.
-   Supporting British Library staff in the production of data
    management plans for British Library datasets by maintaining a
    central register of British Library-derived datasets and acting as a
    resource for data skills within the British Library.
-   Monitoring the external data landscape, producing reports to inform
    future strategic thinking and acting as the primary data support
    within the Research Services team.

**Resources managed**

Assistant Data Services Specialist

**Main tasks**

-   Support the Data Services Lead in the implementation of the British
    Library Data Strategy, in conjunction with other British Library
    staff involved in data initiatives.
-   Provide secretariat to the British Library Data Strategy Group,
    including action plans and assisting in the preparation of strategic
    documents.
-   Administer the UK DataCite service including implementing new
    processes as a result of changing business models, maintaining
    client records, setting up new client accounts, setting up test
    accounts, invoicing clients and answering enquiries on the service.
-   Contribute to the promotion of the DataCite service by organising
    events such as workshops and user group meetings and presenting
    where necessary.
-   Represent the British Library at regular DataCite group meetings
    (e.g. Open Hours).
-   Supporting  British Library staff in the production of data
    management plans for British Library datasets by providing
    templates, advice and presentations.
-   Maintain a central register of British Library-derived datasets and
    ensure compliance with established metadata standards and data
    management best practice.
-   Monitor the external data landscape and produce reports as required.
-   Keep up to date with the latest developments in data management and
    update skills as necessary; act as a resource for data skills and
    training within the British Library.
-   Act as the primary data support within the Research Services team
    and work closely with other members of the team on data-related
    initiatives.
-   Manage outsourced research on the data landscape.
-   Assist the Data Services Lead with integration of data content into
    the Everything Available change management portfolio.
-   Support the Data Services Lead in the development of the **Value
    Proposition Design**
-  Product/Value Map canvas. ***Value
    Proposition Design (VPD)*
-  is an iterative process for designing and
    testing value propositions to ensure we create products and services
    customers really want, and ensure they remain relevant over time.
    (Adapted from [www.strategyzer.com](http://www.strategyzer.com)).
-   Prototype and evaluate tools and resources for data-related content
    (e.g. discovery, analysis, visualisation, storage) from a
    technical/implementation standpoint.
-   Liaise with colleagues across the British Library (e.g. Digital
    Scholarship, Metadata Services) on the development and operation of
    the data.bl.uk service.
-   Present on British Library data initiatives to internal and external
    audiences and produce written communications as required.
-   Demonstrate willingness to take on a range of tasks and to develop
    new skills, as appropriate, in own or other departments/directorates
    to support the delivery of the British Library's services as
    required by line management
  
**Essential:**

-   First degree or equivalent in a relevant subject, or information
    degree or professional experience of working in data management or
    data curation.
-   Demonstrable knowledge of research data management policies and
    procedures.
-   Demonstrable knowledge of the research data management landscape and
    technologies.
-   Awareness of the needs of researchers in respect of the use and
    creation of datasets.
-   An understanding of library environments and their role within the
    data landscape.
-   An understanding of metadata and identifiers and their relationship
    to research data.
-   Excellent interpersonal skills and ability to summarise and present
    information to different audiences.
-   The ability to be proactive and use own initiative in supporting
    colleagues.

**Desired:**

-   Experience of working with different metadata types and standards
    relevant for data.
-   Knowledge of Intellectual Property Rights and licensing issues
    relevant to research data and outputs.
-   Experience of working with research data in a Higher
    Education/research organisation.
-   Experience with outreach and training activities, ideally relating
    to research data management.
-   Familiarity with DataCite and ideally also ORCID.
-   An understanding of the requirements associated with Data Management
    Plans.
-   An understanding of digital curation approaches.
