+++
nid = "7532"
jid = "00480"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-06-07 06:55"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7532"
title = "Social Sciences Librarian "
employer = "Colby College Libraries"
employerurl = "https://www.colby.edu/libraries/"
postdate = "2017-06-07"
archivedate = "2017-06-07"
draft = "false"
+++
Colby College Libraries invites applications for a Social Sciences
Research and Instruction Librarian. The successful candidate will be an
innovative and energetic service-oriented professional, who will serve
as primary liaison to the economics and government departments. In this
role they will support faculty and students by providing information
literacy and research instruction, offering group and individual
research consultations, and helping to development associated library
collections.

Primary Responsibilities:

The Social Sciences Librarian is a member of the Research and
Instruction Group (R&I). This group of librarians provide a range of
reference services, information literacy and course-related library
instruction for students and faculty, and collection development support
to assigned departments.

A critical aspect of this position requires that the librarian be a
strong presence in the College's Social Science community, building and
maintaining close relations with faculty and students in order to meet
their teaching, learning, research, and publication needs. The librarian
will provide direct support for teaching and learning by providing
instruction/lab sessions, workshops, web-based guides and tutorials, and
targeted reference services, through individual and group consultations
and regular office hours. Also in conjunction with the economics and
government faculty, the librarian will assess digital and print
collections to ensure access to resources that support their research
and teaching.

This is a two year full-time faculty position without rank. Colby
librarians collaborate with our CBB consortial colleagues at the Bowdoin
and Bates College libraries. They are encouraged to serve on
college-wide committees, and to participate in professional development
activities.

  
Minimum qualifications:


-   ALA-accredited MLS/MLIS
-   Strong written, presentation and interpersonal communication skills
-   Demonstrated teaching ability using a variety of educational
    pedagogies
-   Experience in reference and library instruction (internships or past
    employment)
-   Ability to work as part of a small, highly collaborative team
-   Ability to easily network both internally and externally across the
    organization
-   Ability to work independently and collaboratively

Preferred qualifications:


-   Familiarity with economics and government research tools, resources
    and literature
-   Undergraduate degree in Social Sciences
-   One or more years of experience in an academic library (internships
    or past employment)
-   Experience providing reference instruction on a variety of economic
    and social science data sets used in an academic research
    environment (internships or past employment)
-   Some exposure and experience with statistical methods and tools
