+++
nid = "7553"
jid = "00484"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-07-10 07:43"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7553"
title = "Biomedical and Translational Science Research Librarian"
employer = "Indiana University School of Medicine"
employerurl = "https://medicine.iu.edu/"
postdate = "2017-07-03"
archivedate = "2017-07-10"
draft = "false"
+++
Based in vibrant Indianapolis, IN, the Ruth Lilly Medical Library seeks
a dynamic, collaborative, and talented Biomedical and Translational
Science Research Librarian to consult with faculty, students, and other
researchers on translational science and research issues. The person in
this position will plan, promote, and provide instruction and
information services that support the needs of students, residents,
faculty, researchers, and staff of the Indiana University School of
Medicine (IUSM).

This is a tenure-track faculty position that will report to the
Assistant Director for Research and Translational Sciences.

IUSM is the nation's largest medical school with nine campuses
throughout Indiana. This school is one of the nation's premiere medical
schools and is an innovative leader in medical education, research, and
clinical care.

IUSM is located in Indianapolis on the Indiana University-Purdue
University campus. Indianapolis is the 13th largest city in the nation
and the state capital, consistently ranking as one of the cleanest and
safest cities in the country. Forbes magazine recently listed
Indianapolis as one of the 10 best downtowns in the country, with a cost
of living below the national average. Please visit
http://medicine.iupui.edu/AboutIndy/ to learn more about Indianapolis.

RESPONSIBILITIES

Biomedical and Translational Science Research Services

-   Serves as a liaison to departments/groups across our nine campus
    statewide system with a strong research focus such as Medical and
    Molecular Genetics, CTSI, Research Affairs, IACUC, etc.
-   Explores, develops, and actively advocates for new methods to
    support biomedical and translational science research at IUSM.
-   Provides research support to faculty, students, and staff in areas
    related to evaluation, visualization, and reporting of research
    impact.
-   Provides research assistance to investigators preparing biomedical
    research protocols/IRB submissions and searching for grant
    opportunities.
-   Contributes to university- and campus-wide initiatives to develop
    policies, services, and infrastructure to support research data
    services through collaboration with the Data Services Librarian and
    other appropriate IUSM/IUPUI faculty and staff.
-   Provides and contributes to biomedical and translational science
    research curriculum and course development, training and workshops
    for IUSM students, faculty, and staff.
-   Provides reference and expert searching services to support
    biomedical and translational sciences research, clinical practice,
    and medical education.
-   Coordinates ongoing training, support, and services on translational
    science and biomedical research fundamentals.
-   Participates in a team approach to providing prompt and effective
    reference, consultation, and instructional services to students,
    faculty, and staff.
-   Cultivates partnerships and collaborates with university faculty on
    projects including teaching, grants, manuscripts, paper, or poster
    presentations.
-   Contributes to the overall development and innovation of the library
    and the profession by participating in library, campus, university,
    state, regional or national meetings, committees, workgroups and
    task forces or by representing the library on consortia.
-   Develops a full network of contacts within assigned liaison areas
    (departments/units, institutes, regional IUSM campuses, and centers)
    and anticipates and meets their information needs.
-   Identifies opportunities for library partnerships within IUSM and
    Indiana University at large.
-   Works with others to develop and revise programs to respond to
    changing information needs.
-   Manages and prioritizes time effectively, seeking clarification or
    assistance from the supervisor as issues arise.
-   Maintains current knowledge of the trends and issues in
    translational science and biomedical research, higher education,
    scholarly communication, research practice and health care. 
-   Pursues an active and ongoing career plan in the areas of job
    performance, professional development/research support and service.
    Standards are outlined in the IUPUI Promotion & Tenure Guidelines:
    http://academicaffairs.iupui.edu/PromotionTenure/IUPUI-Guidelines/Resources. 
-   Designs and implements a plan for continuing education, continuing
    professional development and actively contributes to the development
    of health sciences librarianship through scholarly and service
    activities. 
-   Participates on other projects and initiatives as assigned
  
Required:

-   [ALA]{.caps}-accredited Master's degree or advanced degree in
    relevant field.
-   Demonstrated understanding of best practices related to scientific
    research processes and methods for measuring research impact.
-   Ability to maintain knowledge on a broad range of translational
    science and biomedical research topics.
-   Ability to work in a collegial, collaborative work environment and
    maintain positive professional working relationships with faculty
    members, supervisor, and peers.
-   Demonstrated record of designing projects and concluding them in a
    timely fashion.
-   Record of scholarship, teaching, and/or active membership in a
    professional organization.
-   Excellent communication, presentation, and interpersonal skills

Preferred:

-   Two years of professional experience in a health sciences library or
    equivalent experience.
-   Additional degree in health-related or sciences discipline.
-   Experience working directly with biomedical researchers and/or
    within a research laboratory.
-   Experience with conducting expert searching and/or systematic
    reviews.
