+++
nid = "7362"
jid = "00455"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-02-16 14:16"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7362"
title = "Data Services Manager"
employer = "Johns Hopkins University"
employerurl = "https://www.jhu.edu/"
postdate = "2017-02-02"
archivedate = "2017-02-16"
draft = "false"
+++
The Data Services Manager manages the operations of the JHU Data
Management Services (DMS) and Geographical Information Systems (GIS)
unit including: a) team of four data management specialists and three
GIS specialists that provide data management planning, training,
archiving and geospatial data services and support to researchers across
Johns Hopkins University, and b) new and ongoing collaboration and
partnerships with other departments and units across JHU. In particular,
the Manager must work closely with the Sheridan Libraries' Academic
Liaisons and the Digital Research and Curation Center and the Welch
Medical Library.

The Sheridan Libraries and University Museums are strongly committed to
diversity. A strategic goal of the Libraries and Museums is to work
toward achieving diversity when recruiting new staff and promoting
existing staff. The Libraries and Museums prize initiative, creativity,
professionalism, and teamwork. For information on the Sheridan
Libraries, visit [www.library.jhu.edu](http://library.jhu.edu/). For
information on Evergreen Museum and Library and Homewood Museum, visit
[www.museums.jhu.edu](http://museums.jhu.edu/).

**Responsibilities:**

JHU Data Services Team and Service Operations Management

-   Recruits, trains, and supervises team of four data management
    specialists and three GIS specialists and experts, including goal
    setting, performance management, and development.
-   Promotes a culture of continuous improvement.
-   Establishes and documents policies and service level expectations.
-   Oversees benchmarking and ongoing assessment of consulting,
    training, archiving and geospatial services to inform service
    development.
-   Coordinates with technical staff providing and supporting the
    relevant infrastructure and applications.
-   Directs marketing activities for the unit by monitoring ongoing
    outreach to constituencies, assessing outreach efforts, and planning
    for regular and targeted marketing and communication efforts to grow
    service use.
-   Manages all reporting and communications on the unit's progress with
    the Associate Dean for
-   Research Data Management.
-   Works with Associate Dean for Research Data Management on budgeting,
    contractual and legal matters.

Data Services Planning and Development

-   Collaborates with the Associate Dean for Research Data Management
    and facilitates team planning to shape long-term strategic goals and
    identify annual top initiatives and projects.
-   Manages scoping and development of annual initiatives drawing on
    project management best practices and planning to achieve success.
-   Oversees progress of all projects and services and supports project
    teams. Manages ongoing development and growth of the Data Services
    training and outreach programs, identifying relevant and impactful
    training topics, delivery mechanisms, and resourcing needs.
-   Directs ongoing development of the Data Services unit and various
    informational and analytic resources available through websites and
    online resources.
-   Seeks and builds partnerships with other service units across Johns
    Hopkins to maintain and grow the integration of services in keeping
    with the One University strategic goal.
-   Stays abreast of trends and issues in data management planning,
    sharing, access and curation including data management expectations
    and policies across funders and publishers.
-   Partners with the Associate Dean for Research Data Management to
    develop and manage external partnerships.

Provision of Data Services

-   Manages inquiries from researchers for data management services and
    support. Provides consultative support to PIs including evaluation
    of data planning needs, assessing short and long term options and
    benefits, catering planning to specific granting agency
    requirements, and editing data management plans.
-   Identifies data standards, metadata standards, best practices for
    data management, etc. to continuously build expertise and improve
    provision of service.
-   Maintains knowledge on a broad range of data repositories including
    their submission, Intellectual
-   Property, and use arrangements, and provide guidance on repository
    selection for deposit.
-   Collaborates with others in the library to effectively communicate
    services to faculty, researchers, and departments.
  
Master's degree in Health Sciences, Science, Engineering or Library
Science.

A minimum of five (5) years combined of library, information technology,
informatics, geospatial and/or scientific research experience.

Two years (2) years of management or supervisory experience preferred.

**Special Skills and Knowledge**

-   Knowledge of data repository applications, platforms, and
    technologies, particularly the Open Science Framework and the Fedora
    repository platform.
-   Demonstrated understanding of the research data lifecycle from data
    acquisition to curation and the tools used to manage those data
    throughout the process.
-   Experience managing relationships and/or partnerships with other
    institutions or vendors a plus.
-   Experience leading and managing service, product or project teams
    required. Experience working with data management and/or curation
    required.
-   Excellent interpersonal skills, strong team-orientation, and
    professional attitude.
-   Clear and consistent communicator skilled in networking and outreach
    efforts.
-   Good listener and skilled negotiator with a high degree of customer
    orientation. Strong writing skills.
-   Highly organized and capable of managing multiple projects
    simultaneously.
-   Strong project planning, management, and execution skills.
-   Must be self-motivated, pro-active, willing to take on new
    challenges and solve problems.
