+++
nid = "7812"
jid = "00563"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-11-05 09:33"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7812"
title = "Data Integration Specialist"
employer = "VentureWell"
employerurl = "https://venturewell.org/"
postdate = "2018-11-17"
archivedate = "2018-11-05"
draft = "false"
+++
The Data Integration Specialist works collaboratively with other members
of the IT team in setting standards for database structures and
integrations that enable advanced reporting and insights. 

Primary responsibilities will include creating and managing the
integration of data collection tools and our data repository as part of
VentureWell's evolving platform, and providing technical support to end
users. Workflows and standards created by the Data Integration
Specialist will be used widely to move and transform data, preparing it
for reporting and further analysis and consumption.

Responsibilities:

-   Establishes standards for workflow design as well as database
    structures, based upon feedback from colleagues, industry trends,
    and best practices.
-   Creates and manages new database structures (fields, layouts, views,
    etc.) and validates collected data using other sources to assist the
    reporting and analysis of survey data.
-   Administers and configures integration of survey tools to
    Salesforce.
-   Collaborates with other members of the IT team to ensure that
    integrations align with existing platform architecture and
    strategies.
-   Serves as a main IT point of contact for Evaluation team related to
    data collection and integration.
-   Communicates technical concepts to other staff and key stakeholders
    who have little to no technical ability.
-   Develops and documents IT operational processes, methodologies and
    associated training related to system integrations.
-   May conduct software needs assessment(s) and make recommendations to
    meet business needs and optimize data integration.
  
Requirements:

-   BS/BA required
-   Experience working within a complex integration environment.
-   Experience with designing data storage solutions for reporting
    purposes and ensuring data integrity or "cleanliness."
-   Possesses technical and quantitative reasoning skills for
    understanding survey questionnaires, research methodologies, and the
    purpose of the research.
-   Familiarity with survey data variable types and nuances.
-   Experience with CRM and/or relational databases, preference given to
    Salesforce.com. Experience with data collection tools, preference
    given to Cvent, SurveyGizmo, FormAssembly
-   Active learner who adopts new tools and work processes quickly and
    solves problems creatively and independently. Ability to anticipate
    risks and devise solutions in the moment.
-   Ability to manage one's time and multiple projects with a positive,
    flexible attitude in a complex and rapidly changing work environment
-   Outstanding written and oral communication skills with an ability to
    articulate and synthesize information in a compelling and organized
    manner.
