+++
nid = "7613"
jid = "00521"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-01-30 09:24"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7613"
title = "Information Research Specialist"
employer = "Harvard Business School"
employerurl = "https://www.hbs.edu/Pages/default.aspx"
postdate = "2018-01-30"
archivedate = "2018-01-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The Information Research Specialist is a valued member of Baker Research
Services (BRS), a team of librarians, MBAs, statisticians, and
economists with deep expertise working with licensed and publicly
available data sources. BRS provides support to Harvard Business School
faculty and doctoral students across multiple phases of research,
teaching and learning. Our services include: advising on best resources
for a research project; sourcing, acquiring and preparing data for
analysis; methodological and statistical consulting; managing projects
from beginning to end; finding innovative ways to communicate research
findings; and much more.

Licensed business data sources frequently used in BRS include Bloomberg,
CRSP, Capital IQ, Compustat, Datastream/Eikon, Factset, SDC, Thomson One
and others.

Working Relationships:

-   Reports to the Senior Manager, Baker Research Services.
-   Works closely with HBS faculty, doctoral students, and research
    associates.
-   Contributes to the goals and priorities of Baker Research Services
    and Knowledge and Library Services.
-   Works closely with subject matter, content, and technical experts
    across Knowledge and Library Services, HBS and the Harvard
    University community.

Responsibilities:

The Information Research Specialist in Baker Research Services:

-   Supports the creation of original intellectual property by Harvard
    Business School (HBS) faculty and doctoral students in the forms of
    scholarly articles and books, cases, conference presentations,
    course materials, and testimony.
-   Responds accurately and rapidly to the information needs of clients
    using electronic, printed, and other types of information sources.
    Responsible for completing a varying number of long-term research
    projects as well as responding to quick-turnaround information
    requests.
-   Researches, identifies, evaluates, obtains, accesses, interprets and
    analyzes text and quantitative information and data from printed and
    digital sources including, but not limited to: macroeconomic,
    financial, accounting, and securities data, and information
    collected from third-party and non-traditional sources.
-   Builds and manages coherent spreadsheets and databases, merges data
    from multiple sources and formats, performs statistical analyses,
    and creates data visualizations representing results of research and
    analyses.
-   Consults with and advises researchers on optimal methodologies and
    interpretations of results.
-   Serves as backup to Senior Information Research Specialist in
    providing colleagues and customers with training, maintenance, and
    support for specialized research databases and analytical software
    in Baker Research Services
-   Participates in Baker Library and Harvard Library committees,
    working groups, events, etc.
  
Basic Qualifications:

-   Masters degree or equivalent graduate education in Economics,
    Statistics, Library/Information Science, Business Administration or
    other relevant discipline.
-   Minimum 5+ years of applicable work experience.
-   Demonstrated proficiency in accessing and preparing for analysis
    data from diverse sources and in structured and unstructured
    formats, using Excel and at least one statistical analysis software
    package (SAS, Stata, R, etc.)

Additional Qualifications:

-   Solid understanding of business and economics concepts, related
    quantitative/qualitative measures for research application, and
    research methodologies, practices, and tools.
-   Experience finding, collecting, cleaning, manipulating and analyzing
    quantitative data in a research environment, including experience
    with third-party business data sources.
-   Record of participation in research, preferably in a
    business-related discipline and particularly in the process of
    accessing and preparing raw data for analysis.
-   Ability to work closely with HBS faculty, doctoral students,
    research assistants, and colleagues to understand and assist with
    the achievement of their research goals and to help resolve
    problems.
-   Knowledge of literature databases (particularly business literature
    databases such as Factiva, EBSCO, and LexisNexis) and experience
    with tools and strategies for searching these databases, organizing
    voluminous search results, and integrating results with data from
    other sources.
-   Highly developed skills and creativity in information research,
    organization, presentation and delivery; excellent critical thinking
    skills; superb customer service. Able to produce timely, high
    quality results under pressure.
-   Proven record of managing client relationships, setting priorities,
    meeting multiple deadlines and sharing workloads and projects with a
    research team.
-   Demonstrated ability to instruct and guide others in the use of data
    sources and data analysis tools and to troubleshoot problems.
-   Demonstrated ability and willingness to work well with others and to
    collaborate and contribute to group projects-- such as
    participation on committees and working groups-- within the
    department, across Knowledge and Library Services, and across the
    Harvard Library.
