+++
nid = "7820"
jid = "00556"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-11-05 10:10"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7820"
title = "Research Impact Librarian"
employer = "Indiana Univeristy Ruth Lilly Medical Library "
employerurl = "https://mednet.medicine.iu.edu/medical-library/"
postdate = "2018-10-22"
archivedate = "2018-11-05"
draft = "false"
+++
The Ruth Lilly Medical Library seeks an enthusiastic, flexible,
proactive, service-oriented, and innovative individual for the position
of Research Impact Librarian in Indianapolis, IN. This newly-created
position will work as part of RLML's Research & Translational Sciences
team to assist individuals and groups in their understanding,
assessment, and reporting of impactful outcomes of research and clinical
care efforts across [IUSM]{.caps}. This role provides advisory services
for faculty, students, and staff such as: developing successful
publishing and dissemination strategies, managing or tracking
publications, measuring or assessing research impact by discipline, and
communicating research impact for [IUSM]{.caps} recruitment and
retention.

This is a tenure-track position that reports to the Assistant Director
for Research and Translational Sciences.

[IUSM]{.caps} is the nation's largest medical school with nine campuses
throughout Indiana. This school is one of the nation's premiere medical
schools and is an innovative leader in medical education, research, and
clinical care.

[IUSM]{.caps} is located in vibrant Indianapolis on the Indiana
University-Purdue University campus. Indianapolis is the 13th largest
city in the nation and the state capital, consistently ranking as one of
the cleanest and safest cities in the country. Forbes magazine recently
listed Indianapolis as one of the 10 best downtowns in the country, with
a cost of living below the national average. Please visit
http://medicine.iupui.edu/AboutIndy/ to learn more about Indianapolis.

Primary Duties and Responsibilities

-   Works in tandem with [IUSM]{.caps} and [IUPUI]{.caps} partners to
    collect and analyze research impact data using various resources and
    bibliometric methods to report impact of faculty and institutional
    publishing and research activities.
-   Understands and interprets a wide range of publication- and
    citation-based statistics.
-   Provides researchers with information on options for dissemination,
    publication, and preservation of scholarly works.
-   Investigates and provides specialized support for analysis, use, and
    emerging applications of impact data.
-   Develops and delivers instruction on topics related to understanding
    research impact, reporting impact to funding agencies, and
    optimizing dissemination of research outputs.
-   Maintains awareness of trends related to publishing and research
    impact, such as open access and federal funding policies.
-   Serves as a liaison to departments/groups across our nine campus
    statewide system.
-   Serves as a liaison to one campus at the Indiana University School
    of Medicine.
-   Provides and contributes to curriculum and course development for
    [IUSM]{.caps} students, faculty, and staff.
-   Provides training and implementation on tools, such as electronic
    lab notebooks, RedCap, and Tableau.
-   Provides reference and expert searching services to support
    research, clinical practice, and medical education.

Collaboration

-   Cultivates partnerships and collaborates with university faculty on
    projects including teaching, grants, manuscripts, paper or poster
    presentations.
-   Contributes to the overall development and innovation of the library
    and the profession by participating in library, campus, university,
    state, regional or national meetings, committees, workgroups and
    task forces or by representing the library on consortia.
-   Develops a full network of contacts within assigned liaison areas
    (departments/units, institutes, and centers) and anticipates and
    meets their information needs.
-   Teaches orientation sessions, course-integrated instruction and
    workshops for library clientele.

Scholarly/Professional

-   Maintains current knowledge of the trends and issues in higher
    education, scholarly communication, research practice and health
    care.
-   Pursues an active and ongoing career plan in the areas of job
    performance, professional development/research support and service.
    Standards are outlined in the [IUPUI]{.caps} Promotion & Tenure
    Guidelines:
    http://academicaffairs.iupui.edu/PromotionTenure/[IUPUI]{.caps}-Guidelines/Resources.
-   Designs and implements a plan for continuing education, continuing
    professional development and actively contributes to the development
    of health sciences librarianship through scholarly and service
    activities. Participates on other projects and initiatives as
    assigned.
  
Basic:

-   A[LA]{.caps}-accredited master's degree or international equivalent
    in library or information science.
-   Experience with research impact metrics, bibliometrics and relevant
    related resources, e.g. [ORCID]{.caps}, [VIVO]{.caps}-based
    profiles, [NCBI]{.caps} My Bibliography.
-   Excellent interpersonal, oral, and written communication skills.
-   Ability to work effectively with faculty, staff and users.
-   Commitment to innovative and successful user services.
-   Commitment to diversity and inclusion in the workplace and
    engagement with diverse communities.

Additional:

-   Two years of professional experience in a health or sciences library
    or equivalent experience.
-   Experience working in a research lab and/or as part of a research
    team.
-   Experience with data visualization and tools.
-   Experience delivering instruction to adult learners.
-   Demonstrated knowledge and experience of bibliographic and citation
    databases.
