+++
nid = "8042"
jid = "00568"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2019-05-22 13:16"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8042"
title = "Map and Geospatial Data Librarian "
employer = "University of Michigan"
employerurl = "https://umich.edu/"
postdate = "2018-12-13"
archivedate = "2019-05-22"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Michigan Library is seeking a dynamic and talented
librarian to join the team for the [Stephen S. Clark
Library](https://www.lib.umich.edu/clark-library) for Maps, Government
Information, and Spatial and Numeric Data (SAND) Services, a rich and
unique scholars' resource on campus. The Clark Library Map Collection is
among the premier map collections in North America, containing over
400,000 maps, and 10,000 books and atlases. Current campus initiatives
such as those focusing on data management and archiving, providing
access and metadata for the Big Ten Academic Alliance Geoportal (BTAAG),
data visualization, and assisting with Geographic Information Systems
(GIS) are just a few examples of the arenas where this unit's particular
expertise provides excellent complementary services and support.

The position of Map and Geospatial Data Librarian provides leadership
and expertise in developing library services related to maps as well as
numeric and geospatial datasets across a wide range of disciplines. This
position also supports the use of GIS and related technologies in
teaching and research and serves as representative to the BTAAG and
library wide teams. This is a largely collaborative position that
requires negotiation of relationships across the library and the
University. The incumbent may supervise student employees.

The University of Michigan Library is committed to recruiting and
retaining a diverse workforce and encourages all employees to fully
incorporate their diverse backgrounds, skills, and life experiences into
their work.

**Responsibilities**

-   Assist and instruct diverse users with acquiring, accessing, and
    using the map collection, spatial and numeric data, data citation,
    spatial analysis and visualization, qualitative data analysis, and
    database creation.

-   Promote data citation standards and help researchers identify
    sustainable, documentable practices, and workflows.

-   Create resources and programs that engage with cutting edge data
    management, archive, analysis or display technologies to reflect the
    library's practice of engaging with the scope and scale of
    researcher needs.

-   Create and run workshops and online help guides on maps as well as
    spatial and numeric data topics including data access and use, and
    GIS.

-   Assist in identifying and fulfilling collection development needs
    for spatial and numeric data across multiple subjects.

-   Collaborate with metadata specialists and technical services
    librarians and staff to describe map and data resources.

-   Serve as geospatial data expert on library-wide and regional
    committees about content development and access.

-   Participate in library and campus planning activities, committees
    and task forces as well as conferences and meetings of relevant
    professional associations as appropriate.
  
**Required Qualifications**

-   [ALA-accredited](http://www.ala.org/accreditedprograms/) master's
    degree or equivalent combination of a relevant advanced degree and
    experience.

<!-- -->

-   Understanding of geospatial concepts? knowledge of relevant metadata
    standards and practices.

-   A flexible, creative, and proactive approach to service.

-   Excellent interpersonal, verbal and written communication skills
    including hands-on experience developing and presenting workshops,
    classes, information sessions, and individual/group meetings.

-   Ability to work independently and collaboratively.

-   Ability to engage with, explore, and assess the adoption of relevant
    tools and technologies.

-   Strong understanding of all aspects of diversity and the ability to
    leverage the value of diversity's importance within a complex
    organization.

-   Demonstrated ability to effectively network and build relationships
    with various internal and external stakeholders.
