+++
nid = "7804"
jid = "00542"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-08-24 11:59"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7804"
title = "Director of Princeton Research Data Service (PRDS) "
employer = "Princeton University Library"
employerurl = "http://library.princeton.edu/"
postdate = "2018-07-30"
archivedate = "2018-08-24"
draft = "false"
+++
The Director will have overall leadership responsibility for the
establishment of a strong collaborative initiative with the campus
research community, centered on facilitating access to, managing,
stewarding and storing digital research data. The position will be
responsible for spearheading the consultation and training service
provided by professional research data specialists. It is expected that
the Director will be a visible leader, both on campus, nationally, and
internationally, and able to continually assess the evolving needs of
the campus research community with respect to data management across
disciplines, based on trends in the field of practice as well as the
requirements of federal funding agencies and publishers. Reporting
directly to the University Librarian, the Director will also work
closely with the Dean for Research Office (DFR) and Office of
Information Technology (OIT) to develop appropriate policies, data
repository and storage infrastructure for the University. A Policy
Advisory Committee consisting of senior personnel from OIT, the Library,
DFR, and faculty from each division, will provide guidance and make
appropriate recommendations on matters related to infrastructure,
security, privacy, open access, preservation of codes, sensitive data,
inter-institutional collaborations, etc.

Princeton University is a vibrant community of scholarship and learning
that stands in the nation's service and the service of humanity. As a
world-renowned research university, Princeton seeks to achieve the
highest levels of distinction in the discovery and transmission of
knowledge and understanding. At the same time, Princeton is distinctive
among research universities in its commitment to undergraduate teaching.
  
**Qualifications**

 **Essential Qualifications**

-   Educated to PhD level.
-   4 or more years of increasingly responsible management and
    supervisory experience in an academic or research institution.
-   Demonstrated knowledge of current trends and technical, legal and
    information policy issues in research data management.
-   Demonstrated understanding of the data needs of the academic
    community.
-   Demonstrated experience building and maintaining effective
    partnerships and collaborations.
-   Evidence of significant change management primarily in the
    definition and introduction of new services that have not been
    provided in the past.
-   Demonstrated experience in successfully managing technology staff,
    teams and projects.
-   Evidence of outstanding communication, interpersonal, analytical,
    and problem-solving skills.
-   Demonstrated ability to function effectively under conditions of
    organizational complexity and ambiguity.
-   Demonstrated commitment to a diverse and inclusive workforce and
    work environment. 
