+++
nid = "7800"
jid = "00538"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-08-24 11:41"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7800"
title = "Academic Technology Specialist for the Institute for Research in the Social Sciences "
employer = "Stanford University Libraries’ Center for Interdisciplinary Research (CIDR) "
employerurl = "http://library.stanford.edu/research/cidr"
postdate = "2018-06-21"
archivedate = "2018-08-24"
draft = "false"
+++
The Stanford University Libraries' Center for Interdisciplinary Research
(CIDR) is seeking an innovative, experienced, team-oriented Academic
Technology Specialist for the Institute for Research in the Social
Sciences (IRiSS) in Stanford's School of Humanities and Sciences, to
help lead the integration of technology into data-driven research
activities in the social sciences at Stanford. Regular tasks will
include consulting and collaborating with members of the Stanford
community including faculty, students, and other research personnel,
administrative and technical staff at business and support units from
across the University. The candidate will engage in analyzing,
designing, developing, and implementing computational tools and
environments for social science research primarily housed in the six
social science depts.

The Academic Technology Specialist will be based jointly in IRiSS and
the Stanford Libraries, where s/he will be part of a distinguished and
widely-recognized team of other academic technologists and software
developers with combined decades of expertise in the computational
social sciences and digital humanities, whose activities support
research and teaching in these fields for the Stanford community. CIDR
collaborates both with individual faculty and with centers, departments
and institutes engaged in digital scholarship, particularly in the
social sciences, digital humanities, and within the related professional
schools where similar work occurs. CIDR is also a hub for collaboration
and communication among social science and digital humanities scholars,
library curators, and professional developers, promoting a sense of
shared purpose in support of the Stanford mission of research and
teaching.

The successful candidate will have a deep understanding of scholarship
in the social sciences, and particularly with social science data. S/he
will consult and collaborate with faculty and students on research
projects to identify technical approaches, processes and tools; evaluate
and integrate existing software tools; and design and implement new
solutions. That candidate should have both a broad and deep
understanding of current state of the art in social science research
methods, emerging tools, and increased data security requirements as new
methods seek data that include PII/PHI, as well as experience working
with data visualization; statistical analysis; high performance
computing; secure storage and computation; secure data provisioning and
contracting; cloud computing; and other areas.

**CORE DUTIES*:**


-   Assist in providing departmental leadership in the use of technology
    in teaching, learning, community building and/or research. Manage or
    provide assistance in the direct integration of technology into
    course curricula, extra-curricular or co-curricular learning, and/or
    research projects.
-   Lead the development of resources, seminars, courses, or workshops
    to disseminate information about uses of technology.
-   Actively encourage and support the use of computer-based tools by
    developing and implementing new tools and resources for instructors
    or students, assisting them with the tools, disseminating knowledge
    of these tools throughout the program or university, and creating
    and supporting an infrastructure that allows use of the tools in
    research, teaching and/or learning.
-   Assist with coordination academic learning technology policies,
    procedures and support.
-   Lead projects to develop innovative uses of technology for research,
    student learning and/or community building. Consult on development
    of software applications, or work with on- or off-campus resources
    to develop or adapt software solutions.
-   Consult with and help instructors and/or departments to incorporate
    technologies into faculty research projects, course design and
    curricula and/or co-curricula in support of student learning goals.
-   Provide expertise and support in applying instructional design
    methodologies to the development, implementation, and evaluation of
    face-to-face, hybrid, and online courses.
-   Provide outreach and advocacy within and across departments for
    effective uses of educational technology. Provide departmental and
    campus leadership for using technology in teaching, learning and/or
    research.
-   
-  - Other duties may also be assigned
  
**MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:**

**Education & Experience:**
Bachelor's degree plus four years of relevant experience, or combination
of education and relevant experience.

**Other Relevant Education May Include:**
An advanced degree in the social sciences or a related area is highly
desirable.

**Knowledge, Skills and Abilities:**

-   Expertise in utilizing technology to enhance teaching and research.
-   Ability to define and solve logical problems for technical
    applications.
-   Demonstrated ability to express course material and pedagogic goals
    through the imaginative application of technology to existing
    materials and structures.
-   Ability to plan, design, develop and evaluate engaging multimedia
    learning/training objects.
-   Experience with delivering applications in a networked environment.
-   Excellent teaching, communication and interpersonal skills.
-   Ability to interact effectively and tactfully with members of the
    academic community; demonstrated experience working in an
    environment with colleagues of diverse backgrounds and customs.
-   Demonstrated expertise with instructional design methodologies,
    pedagogical issues, and best practices for classroom, online, and
    hybrid learning.
-   Excellent time management and project management skills.
    Demonstrated ability to manage a complex workload, prioritize tasks,
    and use good judgment in providing services based on goals.
-   Expert knowledge of Macintosh and Windows environments, and facility
    with Unix.
-   Demonstrated experience developing and delivering technical training
    to a non-technical audience.
-   Expert knowledge of learning management systems and various
    classroom and online learning technologies.
-   Excellent customer service skills, strong interpersonal skills, and
    the ability to build strong working relations with a diverse
    audience of faculty, staff, and students.


Other Relevant Knowledge, Skills and Abilities May Include:

-   Excellent leadership skills.


PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS*:

-   Constantly perform desk-based computer tasks.
-   Frequently sitting, grasp lightly/fine manipulation.
-   Occasionally stand/walk, lift/carry/push/pull objects that weigh
    11-20 pounds.
-   Rarely writing by hand, use a telephone.
-   
-  - Consistent with its obligations under the law, the University
    will provide reasonable accommodation to any employee with a
    disability who requires accommodation to perform the essential
    functions of his or her job.


WORKING CONDITIONS:

-   Extended hours and weekends.
-   Occasional overnight travel.


WORK STANDARDS:

-   Interpersonal Skills: Demonstrates the ability to work well with
    Stanford colleagues and clients and with external organizations.
-   Promote Culture of Safety: Demonstrates commitment to personal
    responsibility and value for safety; communicates safety concerns;
    uses and promotes safe behaviors based on training and lessons
    learned.
-   Subject to and expected to comply with all applicable University
    policies and procedures, including but not limited to the personnel
    policies and other policies found in the University's
    Administrative Guide, http://adminguide.stanford.edu.
