+++
nid = "7824"
jid = "00559"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-11-05 11:10"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7824"
title = "Internship"
employer = "Federal Reserve Board"
employerurl = "https://www.federalreserve.gov/"
postdate = "2018-10-30"
archivedate = "2018-11-05"
draft = "false"
+++
The Research Library of the Federal Reserve Board is offering a paid
summer internship for graduate level library or information science
students. We offer a full array of desktop and customized library
services to staff members at the Board and assist in data intensive and
web-dependent Board Research.

The Research Library intern will help improve library services to the
Board research and professional community. The intern will work on
several of the following projects that represent a variety of the
library's responsibilities:

-   **Data Inventory Catalog Record Enrichment**
    Assist with the curation and cataloging of data sets using
    international and local standards and practices. Enrich dataset
    records using subject analysis and normalization of inconsistent
    metadata. Assist with authority control and data cleanup of vendor
    records. Link research with data assets used in research, to display
    in data inventory. Process and analyze search logs for controlled
    subject vocabulary term enrichment.

<!-- -->

-   **Scholarly Research and Communications**
    Create researcher IDs (ORCID, etc.) for Board authors and connect
    those IDs to author publications.

<!-- -->

-   **Preparing for Library Move**
    Perform collection management and other tasks in preparation for
    move.

<!-- -->

-   **Research**
    Research and report out on several topics of interest to library
    strategy (precise topics TBD, but they will likely relate to issues
    in scholarly communications, research data, and library management).

<!-- -->

-   **Marketing**
    Draft a presentation and outreach materials to promote data mapping
    resources; assist with review of general marketing materials.

This full-time (40 hours per week during working hours) internship is
located in Washington, D.C., lasts 10-12 weeks, and begins in late May
or early June.
  
**Position Requirements**

-   Enrolled in a Master's degree program in library or information
    science at an ALA-accredited institution
-   Knowledge and interest in library technology
-   Coursework in original and copy cataloging
-   Attention to detail, initiative, and good communication skills a
    must
