+++
nid = "7815"
jid = "00551"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-11-05 09:44"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7815"
title = "Spatial Data Science Librarian "
employer = "UCLA Libraries"
employerurl = "http://www.library.ucla.edu/"
postdate = "2018-09-19"
archivedate = "2018-11-05"
draft = "false"
+++
The UCLA Library seeks a Spatial Data Science Librarian (SDSL) to
develop and extend the Library's role in providing services centered
around the acquisition, development, and utilization of research
collections of geospatial digital assets. The Spatial Data Science
Librarian is tasked with facilitating geospatial research, and enabling
its use through research support, exhibitions and programming, and
community building, facilitated by collaboration with colleagues within
and beyond the Library. Reporting to the Director of the Library Data
Science Center, the SDSL will play a leading role defining a vision of
geospatial discovery and representation services needed to support
research and use.

Position Duties
Reporting to the Director of the Data Science Center, the incumbent is
responsible for the following duties:

-   Envisions, develops, and evolves geospatial services and programs
    that promote, support, and inspire geospatial research methods and
    use of geospatial resources as part of an emerging suite of services
    offered in the Data Science Center. These services include research
    facilitation, instruction, and community building with colleagues
    within and beyond the Library.
-   Provides strategic planning and practical decision-making for the
    technical infrastructure for spatial components of data science and
    geospatial digital projects in support of both teaching and research
    across the campus. Develops short-term and long-term goals and
    objectives to achieve the envisioned services and programs.
-   Provides leadership and planning support for geospatial and data
    research projects with spatial components.
-   Engages with researchers and creators on campus in new uses of
    spatial data, especially in conjunction with large, convergence
    research and inter- and transdisciplinary endeavors.
-   Contributes to the development of the Library's geospatial
    collections, drawing on an understanding of the collection's
    strengths, its use, scholarly trends, and the identification and
    pursuit of new collecting opportunities.
-   Serves as the Library expert on geospatial technologies, including
    discovery interfaces, GIS software, geospatial repositories and
    databases, geospatial data acquisition and methods.
-   Represents and promotes the collections, projects, and services of
    the Library through outreach and advocacy at conferences and
    consortia related to geospatial resources and research.
-   Serves as an advocate for adopting appropriate practices locally for
    the preservation and enduring utility of geospatial resources,
    including contributing to larger policy development and revisions
    related to the Library's digital preservation policy.
-   As a member of the Library's Data Science Center, advises UCLA
    scholars on geospatial data management and data lifecycle. Serves as
    a general advisor on data management in support of the mission of
    the Data Science Center.
-   Provides individual consultations involving the use, processing, and
    analysis of geospatial data to UCLA students, faculty, and staff, as
    well as off-campus users.
-   Coordinates the Library's GIS services with other campus GIS
    initiatives and cooperates with UC wide GIS initiatives.
-   Works with Library Development to cultivate and steward donors,
    collections, and gift funds.
  
Required Qualifications

-   ALA-accredited Master's Degree in Library or Information Science OR
    significant graduate-level coursework toward such a degree OR
    equivalent education and experience (subject expertise combined with
    professional library education and/or experience).
-   Demonstrated GIS experience.
-   Extensive knowledge and expertise with geospatial data and relevant
    software, such as, GDAL, ESRI ArcGIS applications, Carto, ENVI, and
    QGIS.
-   Experience with Python or R and their application to geospatial
    data.
-   Experience with data visualization tools, software, and concepts
    related to geospatial information.
-   Competence with georeferenced data wrangling, analysis,
    visualization, and storytelling.
-   Fluency in best practices for the preservation and enduring utility
    of geospatial resources.
-   Commitment to fostering an inclusive educational environment and
    workplace and ability to work with a diverse student and faculty
    population.
-   Excellent communication and interpersonal skills.
-   Ability to initiate and maintain collaborative working relationships
    with co-workers, supervisors, and managers. Ability to work
    harmoniously and as a team player and to thrive in a team-based
    environment. Demonstrated skill in fostering teamwork among others.

Desired Qualifications

-   Master's degree or equivalency in Geography, Geographic Information
    Science, or other relevant field, or relevant work experience.
-   Knowledge of common Machine Learning algorithms such as Decision
    Trees and Neural Networks and common implementation libraries such
    as scikit-learn.
-   Experience with data management planning.
-   Experience with SQL and spatial databases, such as PostGIS and
    SpatiaLite.
-   Knowledge of statistics and its application in geospatial science.
-   Ability to work across varied disciplines including Arts and
    Architecture, Humanities, Social Sciences, and STEM fields.
-   Demonstrated teaching experience.
-   Experience working in an academic, research or special library.
-   Experience working in higher education.
-   Demonstrated project management skills.
-   Experience in donor relations and stewardship.
