+++
nid = "7791"
jid = "00529"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-08-24 11:09"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7791"
title = "Librarian, Assessment & Data Visualization"
employer = "University of Washington"
employerurl = "http://www.washington.edu/"
postdate = "2018-03-29"
archivedate = "2018-08-24"
draft = "false"
+++
Under the direction of the Assistant Director of Systems, the Data
Visualization Librarian is a creative and forward-thinking individual
that can develop a program of support in data visualization. The Data
Visualization Librarian will help assist in managing the HSL
Translational Research and Information Lab (TRAIL) that includes a
six-panel data wall. The Data Visualization Librarian will serve as an
expert consultant to our faculty and researchers on visual thinking and
data visualization techniques and software. Candidates who exhibit
excellent communication skills, aptitude with technology, and the
ability to work in a collaborative, team environment will be given
serious consideration. This is a full-time position.

SPECIFIC RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES

-   Develop and deliver scalable and data visualization services and
    resources in collaboration for UW and NNLM National Evaluation
    Office (NEO).
-   Provide consultation to health sciences faculty, clinicians, and
    other researchers on data visualization techniques, tools, and
    software. Provides support and consultation to faculty and academic
    units in developing measurable student learning outcomes.
-   Assist in managing the data wall and other technology in the
    Translational Research and Information Lab (TRAIL) located in HSL.
    Help create and maintain documentation of technology, tools, and
    best practices. Track usage, conduct assessments and make
    recommendations for technology and space enhancements.
-   Design and deliver workshops and trainings on visualization tools
    and techniques.
-   Develop instructional materials and e-learning modules.
-   Perform data analysis in Excel and other statistical packages to
    identify key insights in the data.
-   Help create interactive data reports that are delivered to clients,
    such as library trends, built in Microsoft Excel or other platforms.
-   Modeling data and metadata to support ad-hoc and pre-built
    reporting.
-   Work with clients to pull data from large complex data sets.
-   Communicates appropriately, effectively, and positively. Plays an
    active role in staying informed and participating in Libraries and
    unit meetings, activities, and events. Is familiar with and
    understands the UW Libraries Personal Communication Responsibility
    Guidelines.
  
Required

-    Graduate degree from a program accredited by the American Library
    Association or an equivalent graduate library science/information
    studies degree.
-   Demonstrated commitment to diversity and understanding of the
    contributions a diverse workforce brings to the workplace.
-   Experience utilizing a variety of data visualization tools and
    methods to create graphs, charts, timelines, maps, dashboards,
    infographics, etc.
-   Experience with data models and data visualization software (i.e. R,
    Excel or Tableau)
-   Initiate and ability to problem solve and create solutions to
    technical and data analysis problems.
-   Experience managing projects and integrating IT into workflows.

 

Preferred

-    Familiarity with the principles of programming languages such as
    Javascript or R.
-   Expert experience in health sciences library research tools,
    databases, and learning management systems and databases such as
    REDCap.
-   Knowledge of statistical packages.
-   Thorough understanding of continuing and integrating resources,
    including awareness of issues concerning vendors, packages,
    aggregators, platforms, licensing pricing models, and financial and
    statistical management needs.
