+++
nid = "7795"
jid = "00533"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-08-24 11:22"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7795"
title = "Science Liaison Librarian"
employer = "UNC Greensboro University Libraries"
employerurl = "https://library.uncg.edu/"
postdate = "2018-06-13"
archivedate = "2018-08-24"
draft = "false"
+++
The University Libraries at the University of North Carolina at
Greensboro seek an innovative, knowledgeable, service-oriented, and
dynamic individual to serve as a science liaison librarian. The science
liaison will work collaboratively with teaching and Libraries' faculty
colleagues to develop and provide information resources, information
literacy instruction, and research expertise to faculty and students in
life and physical science departments. Some evening/weekend work is
expected. This position reports to the Head of Research, Outreach, and
Instruction and will join a highly collaborative department of nine
librarians and three paraprofessionals. It is a twelve-month
tenure-track faculty position. Demonstrated professional achievement,
service, and scholarly/creative activity are required for reappointment
and tenure.

Responsibilities

-   Serve as a liaison to specific science departments including, but
    not limited to, Biology, Chemistry and Biochemistry, Physics and
    Astronomy, and the Joint School of Nanoscience and Nanoengineering.
-   Develop outreach initiatives to support faculty, staff, students,
    and the community.
-   Work collaboratively with science faculty to develop, deliver, and
    assess information literacy instruction, in person and online.
-   Work with faculty and students to promote best practices in data
    management.
-   Develop tutorials and online research guides.
-   Educate faculty and graduate students on scholarly communication
    issues such as open-access initiatives, digital publishing and
    copyright.
-   Provide general and subject-specific research service, including
    citation management software assistance.
-   Develop and manage print and electronic collections and resources
    for the sciences, including numeric data sources.
-   Contribute to outreach and other activities of the libraries'
    Science Liaison Librarian Team.

As a tenure-track faculty member, participate actively in professional
organizations, conduct appropriate research/creative activities, and
serve on committees within the Libraries and the university.
  
Required Qualifications

-   [ALA]{.caps}-accredited [MLS]{.caps}
-   Undergraduate degree in a science related field, or experience with
    science librarianship
-   Demonstrated excellent written and oral communication skills
-   Demonstrated strong public service commitment
-   Demonstrated knowledge of science resources
-   Demonstrated ability to work collaboratively and collegially with
    librarians, faculty, staff and students
-   Demonstrated ability to plan and deliver educational programming,
    which could include information literacy instruction, training, or
    workshop facilitation
-   Demonstrated commitment to working with diverse population

Preferred Qualifications

-   Two years of professional library experience or equivalent
    professional experience
-   Experience in an academic or research library with reference,
    information literacy, collection management or outreach services
-   Experience using tools for instructional design and online
    collaboration, such as Camtasia, LibGuides, WebEx, and learning
    management systems
-   Knowledge of data management trends and sources of science data
-   Knowledge of tools such as SciFinder Scholar, Scopus, Google
    Scholar, etc.
-   Knowledge of publication trends and practices in the sciences
-   Familiarity with citation management applications such as Zotero
-   A second subject masters degree
