+++
nid = "7813"
jid = "00549"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-11-05 09:36"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7813"
title = "Research Data Management Librarian "
employer = "University of Houston Libraries "
employerurl = "https://libraries.uh.edu/"
postdate = "2018-09-17"
archivedate = "2018-11-05"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Houston is committed to advancing its research
priorities and transforming ideas into innovations. We seek a dynamic
leader to build library research data management services that are
responsive to these emerging research needs.

Responsibilities

The Research Data Management Librarian will lead the planning,
implementation, and assessment of research data management services.
Such services may include instruction, consultations, and partnerships
with faculty and researchers on data management plans, data management
tools and strategies, and metadata standards. Reporting to the Head of
Liaison Services within the University Libraries, this position is part
of the Liaison Services Department and will collaborate with subject
librarians to integrate data management best practices across
disciplines, in research labs, and research centers. This position also
will collaborate with the Data Services Librarian to expand and promote
research support and data-related services across campus. An important
component of this responsibility will be staying up to date on funding
agencies' data management policies and contributing to the ongoing
training of library staff on research data management fundamentals and
services.

The Research Data Management Librarian also will collaborate with
colleagues in the Digital Research Services department to promote
research data sharing and curation services related to data
repositories. Additionally, there are opportunities to collaborate with
colleagues in Metadata and Digitization Services on promoting best
practices for accessibility, archiving, assessment, attribution, and
resource sharing as it relates to the grant process. Based on the
emerging needs and collaborative nature of this position, the incumbent
will have opportunities to develop expertise in these areas.

The Research Data Management librarian is a librarian position.
Librarians hold academic rank pursuant to the University of Houston
Librarians' Bylaws. They are expected to develop a record of service,
scholarship, and professional development. The UH Libraries support the
ongoing professional development of librarians, and our goal is to
recruit librarians committed to continuous learning.
  
Required:

-   American Library Association (ALA)-accredited Master's degree, or an
    advanced degree with demonstrated experience in data management
    and/or data curation
-   Knowledge of the research data lifecycle and research processes
-   Ability to work strategically and collaboratively with stakeholders
    to build programs and initiatives
-   Demonstrated excellent communication skills

Preferred:

-   Experience with data management components of the grant process
-   Knowledge of metadata standards and formats used in research (e.g.
    Dublin Core, DDI, ORCID, DOI)
-   Awareness of issues related to digital preservation
-   Familiar with aspects of copyright and licensing relating to the
    deposit, discoverability, sharing and reuse of research data
-   Familiar with institutional or subject based data repository systems
    and tools
-   Strong teaching and presentation skills
