+++
nid = "7606"
jid = "00516"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-01-16 07:24"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7606"
title = "User Experience and Project Management Librarian"
employer = "Indiana University, IUPUI University Library"
employerurl = "https://www.indiana.edu/"
postdate = "2018-01-05"
archivedate = "2018-01-16"
draft = "false"
+++
The IUPUI University
Library [http://www.ulib.iupui.edu](http://www.ulib.iupui.edu/) seeks a
User Experience (UX) and Project Management Librarian to be a part of
the Library's Center for Digital
Scholarship <https://ulib.iupui.edu/digitalscholarship>, and Operations
Team. This UX and PM Librarian will lead the user-centric, ongoing
development of the library's web presence, employing student and faculty
focused usability testing and industry standards to inform, and project
management skills to organize timely work completion.  The library's web
presence includes: our website, research guides, over 80 digital
collections, institutional and data repositories, open publishing
services, digital humanities projects, a discovery system, and other
digital interfaces.  The UX and PM Librarian participates in all stages
of web site development -- from concept to implementation.  She/He will
have a passion for innovative problem solving and be the key translator
between expressed web interface needs and the technologists who make the
web designs a reality. The UX and PM Librarian works in a highly
collaborative cross-unit environment including with other academic
technologists on broad scale, grant funded, national digital library
solution efforts.  In an ever-changing technology environment the UX and
PM Librarian will need to be able to quickly learn and implement new
technologies.

The UX and PM Librarian reports to the Associate Dean of Digital
Scholarship and works closely with the Head of Operations (library
technology team).  The UX and PM Librarian will demonstrate the
potential to fulfill the requirements for promotion and tenure and an
understanding of IUPUI's mission, "to advance the state of Indiana and
the intellectual growth of its citizens to the highest levels nationally
and internationally through research and creative activity, teaching and
learning, and civic engagement."

**Primary Responsibilities:**

**Project Management **

-   Scope, plan, and manage multiple projects simultaneously.
-   Communicate project priorities and goals with project stakeholders,
    developers, and library-wide staff.
-   Create and maintain project documentation.
-   Participate, as needed, on library committees. May provide advice or
    assistance to other units within the University Library regarding
    user research or interface issues.

**Interface Design**

-   Create concept sketches, flow diagrams, wireframes, mockups, and
    html prototypes.
-   Create complete visual designs and web-ready graphics.
-   Conduct ongoing research into the development of new interface
    capabilities, enhancements, and user-centered design trends.

**User Research**

-   Design and conduct user research/usability studies using a variety
    of techniques (e.g. formal/informal usability testing, online
    surveys, card sorting, interviews, observations, focus groups,
    participatory design).
-   Conduct regular web analytics to identify opportunities for
    improvement.
-   Conduct web accessibility audits.
  
**Required Qualifications**

-   An ALA-accredited Master's degree in Library or Information Science
-   Excellent organizational, analytical, and problem-solving skills.
-   Excellent written and oral communication skills.
-   Ability to work independently, contribute and collaborate
    effectively as a member of a team as well as lead a project group.

**Additional Qualifications**-It is expected that the Librarian will be
highly proficient in ***at least 5 of the following
qualifications*** with no predetermined preferred combination.  The
successful candidate will have the opportunity to develop additional
skills through library supported professional development.

-   Creating complete interface designs and web-ready graphics.
-   Utilizing graphics software and prototyping software (e.g.,
    Photoshop, Illustrator).
-   Designing and/or evaluating library systems or other complex
    websites.
-   Designing and/or evaluating mobile interfaces.
-   Employing a variety of user research/usability methods.
-   Employing web accessibility standards and coding techniques.
-   Conducting web analytics analysis.
-   Creating concept sketches, flow diagrams, wire frames, and mock-ups.
-   Utilizing collaborative programming tools such as Confluence, Jira ,
    GitHub, or similar.
-   Coding experience (possible languages include: HTML5, CSS, XML HP,
    JavaScript, XSLT, and/or  CSS)
-   Utilizing open source software such as: Drupal, DSpace, Open Journal
    System, Fedora, Hydra/Samvera.
-   Programming in Ruby on Rails, Javascript or other languages.
-   Working in agile programming environment.
-   Managing complex projects including delegation of work and timeline
    creation.
-   A degree or training in a relevant technology oriented field (e.g.,
    Project Management, Graphic Design, UxD, HCI, Digital Humanities) is
    desired but not required.
