+++
nid = "7814"
jid = "00550"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-11-05 09:39"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7814"
title = "Executive Director "
employer = "Council of Professional Associations on Federal Statistics (COPAFS)"
employerurl = "http://www.copafs.org/"
postdate = "2018-09-18"
archivedate = "2018-11-05"
draft = "false"
+++
The Executive Director is responsible for achieving the mission and
purposes of COPAFS to advance and promote a vital statistical system in
the United States. The Executive Director serves as the principal
spokesperson for the organization with responsibility for developing,
leading, and maintaining strategic relations with the full spectrum of
stakeholders in federal statistics and data use. The Executive Director
is expected to bring initiative, innovative ideas, and leadership skill
to educating and advocating for sound policies and federal support for
statistics and data. The Executive Director is also expected to
strengthen COPAFS financially as well as enhance its profile in the
federal statistical community.

Principal Duties and Responsibilities:

-   Leads COPAFS in serving as principal advocate for the critically
    important work of federal statistical agencies and a scientifically
    sound and vital federal statistical system.
-   Enables COPAFS to address critical issues, budgetary needs, and
    sound science policies on behalf of the statistical user community
    to federal statistical agencies and to Congress.
-   Advances the role and voice of COPAFS as the go-to organization
    capable of advancing the health of federal statistics and the
    objectives of the statistical community to foster statistics and
    data of the highest quality, accessibility, and usability.
-   Ensures that COPAFS continues to strengthen its role and reputation
    in providing information, education and dialogue within the federal
    statistical community.
-   Develops and pursues opportunities for COPAFS, whether through
    convening stakeholder meetings, strategically designing quarterly
    meetings, executing essential projects, holding briefings, or
    similar activities, to promote awareness of the issues, challenges,
    and opportunities related to the federal statistical agencies and to
    federal databases and their use.
-   Assumes responsibility for the administrative and financial
    well-being of COPAFS, including development of the annual budget,
    routine monitoring and reporting on finances and budget, and
    overseeing and ensuring filing of tax returns and other financial
    and legal documents required to maintain COPAFS legal and financial
    status.
-   Develops and implements an ongoing plan to expand the membership
    base of COPAFS, making certain that users of federal statistics are
    aware of the benefits of membership in COPAFS as well as the
    advantages to participation in its activities and programs.
-   Works with the Board of Directors to develop and implement
    strategies to strengthen and expand COPAFS sources of financial
    support, including fundraising from institutions and organizations
    that rely heavily on Federal statistics for their research or
    programs.
-   Ensures that the Board of Directors is kept fully informed on the
    conditions and operations of COPAFS and issues that may affect its
    well-being and that of its membership.
-   Promotes the active participation by Board members and the
    membership in the development and execution of COPAFS policy and
    programs to ensure a common and shared vision and direction for the
    organization.
  
Graduate degree commonly found among professionals in the federal
statistical user and science leadership communities. Leadership ability
a must, as is an understanding of and a passion for the importance of
statistics, data, and sound research policies. Familiarity with federal
statistical community and programs and products is also essential.
Success in engaging others in a common cause highly sought, certainly an
instinct or desire to have this responsibility. Innovative and
entrepreneurial track record a must, and success in fundraising or
development is highly desirable. Success in managing within budget is
required as is serving as an organization's spokesperson with solid
instincts and abilities in relationship development and outreach. Strong
oral and written communication skills essential. Organizational
management and leadership experience highly desirable. Occasional travel
to conferences or other meetings as required.
