+++
nid = "7802"
jid = "00540"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-08-24 11:53"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7802"
title = "Geospatial Data Curator & Applications Administrator "
employer = "Johns Hopkins University"
employerurl = "https://www.jhu.edu/"
postdate = "2018-07-08"
archivedate = "2018-08-24"
draft = "false"
+++
This position develops and oversees geospatial data applications for
academic and research use by JHU students, staff, and faculty and
contributes to the curation of geospatial data. The position provides
technical expertise and leadership in developing systems that support
the teaching and research work at the university, leading the technical
and curation side of the provision of GIS services in the Data Services
unit, administratively located in the Data Management Directorate.
Serves the point of communication between service and technology.

**Specific duties & responsibilities:**

Curation and Applications Administration

-   Design, configure, implement, and test applications and systems for
    geospatial data in an academic setting, tailored to our local
    environment at JHU
-   Independently administer applications for work with geospatial data
    and continually seek ways to find efficiencies and provide effective
    end user experiences
-   Co-administer the institutional instance of ArcGIS Online
-   Implement and administer a local version of ArcGIS Enterprise
-   Contribute to the development of spatial data infrastructure for
    preservation, access, and discovery of spatial data.
-   Assess user needs to inform development of new applications,
    systems, and services.
-   Communicate the system requirements and recommendations specific to
    geospatial applications to colleagues in the Digital Research and
    Curation Center and Library Applications Group.

Provision of Services

-   Provide in-depth consultations to faculty, students, and staff
    related to the use GIS applications and geospatial data,
    particularly the technical and curation aspects
-   Create authorization files; make software installer and
    authorization files for site-licensed suite of ArcGIS software
    available for download to the JHU community.
-   Contribute to the staffing of the shared email service account
-   Deliver instruction sessions on GIS and Geospatial Data through
    course-integrated instruction and open workshops
-   Develop online tools for geospatial data users, such as LibGuides
-   Participate in regular meetings and serve on committees, task
    forces, and working groups as appropriate.
-   Other duties as assigned
  
**Minimum qualifications (mandatory):**

-   Bachelor's degree required. Additional experience can be substituted
    for education.
-   Three years related experience required.  Additional education can
    be substituted for experience.
-   Demonstrated experience with GIS applications. Working knowledge of
    and/or experience with administering applications such as ArcGIS
    server, ArcGIS Portal, ArcGIS Enterprise, GeoServer, GeoBlacklight
-   Working knowledge of repository platforms such as Fedora and
    curation issues for geospatial data
-   Knowledge of geospatial data databases, such as ArcGIS Geodatabases,
    PostGIS, etc.
-   Excellent communication skills, both written and verbal. Capacity to
    communicate effectively with service-focused as well as
    technology-focused colleagues.
-   Commitment to providing excellent service
-   Ability to work independently and collaboratively

**Preferred qualifications:**

-   Relevant advanced degree strongly preferred.
-   Knowledge of Python and Python-based tools
-   Working knowledge/demonstrated experience with metadata standards
    for geospatial data FGDC or ISO 19115
-   Knowledge of or experience with geospatial data visualization
-   Knowledge of or experience with open source applications for
    geospatial data, such as: QGIS, Carto, GRASS, R, and Leaflet
