+++
nid = "7786"
jid = "00525"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-08-24 10:41"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7786"
title = "Research Data & Infrastructure Librarian"
employer = "NCSU Libraries "
employerurl = "https://www.lib.ncsu.edu/"
postdate = "2018-03-07"
archivedate = "2018-08-24"
draft = "false"
+++
The NCSU Libraries invites applications and nominations for the position
of **Research Data & Infrastructure Librarian** to join the
Libraries' [Digital Library
Initiatives](http://www.lib.ncsu.edu/dli/projects) department. Digital
Library Initiatives develops and delivers an information environment
that significantly advances end-user resource discovery and use of
library services. Digital Library Initiatives has produced a number of
unique and widely used systems to improve service to library users,
including the Lentil photographic social media archival collecting
system and the QuickSearch bento-box style single-search system. The
department is currently developing new projects in areas including
library service and resource discovery, assessment and analytics, data
visualization, social media archives, research services, application
virtualization, visualization services, and support for digital research
and scholarship. The Digital Library Initiatives department maintains a
culture of collaboration, with a focus on supporting everyone's
professional growth, providing opportunities for mentorship, and
welcoming diverse perspectives.

The NCSU Libraries provides services in support of research data
management across the university. As a member of the Libraries' research
data management team, and in collaboration with partners in the
university's Office of Information Technology and Office of Research,
Innovation and Economic Development, the Research Data & Infrastructure
Librarian advances library services that support data management
throughout the research lifecycle.
  
Minimum Education/Experience

ALA-accredited MLS, MIS, or equivalent advanced degree.

Departmental Required Skills

Demonstrated experience with research data management practices and
tools.
Knowledge of best practices and technical challenges related to research
data management. 
Evidence of ability to work well with faculty, students, and staff in a
consulting and instructional capacity; experience developing and
delivering workshops and training sessions.
Ability to think creatively and identify new areas of opportunity across
the institution.
Excellent interpersonal skills; ability to communicate effectively, both
orally and in writing.
Capacity to thrive in an exciting, ambiguous, future-oriented
environment and to respond effectively to changing needs and
priorities.
Evidence of ability for ongoing professional development and
contribution.

Preferred Experience, Skills, Training/Education

First-hand knowledge of issues and challenges related to data curation.
General familiarity with metadata standards, identifier schemes, digital
repository systems, and related applications and services of relevance
to research data.
Familiarity with data sharing policies for federally funded research and
emerging practices for compliance with funder requirements.
Familiarity with existing domain-specific and general-purpose data
repository services.
Demonstrated awareness of issues related to privacy and confidentiality
for human subjects research and other research involving protected data.
