+++
nid = "7805"
jid = "00543"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-08-24 12:04"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7805"
title = "Data Liaison Manager"
employer = "Cancer Research UK"
employerurl = "https://www.cancerresearchuk.org/"
postdate = "2018-08-02"
archivedate = "2018-08-24"
draft = "false"
+++
evelop and manage relationships with key providers of health and social
care data across the UK to secure access to critical data.Influence
external stakeholders on the development of new and existing datasets to
meet CRUK's analytical data requirements.Support requests for data -
held by external bodies - by CRUK's Cancer Intelligence team and the
wider Policy and Information directorate.Manage data protection
compliance and other technical/governance requirements for data received
by CRUK's Cancer Intelligence team in line with the needs of data
providers and industry best practice. Here at Cancer Research UK, our
understanding of cancer is increasing at a faster pace than ever before,
and more people are surviving thanks to the work we do. Every day we
achieve extraordinary things by being innovative, imaginative and bold
in our work. Now we need an experienced data manager to facilitate
access for CRUK staff to external datasets and other critical sources of
date, to improve the management of data held by the Policy and
Information directorate and to support the generation of cancer
intelligence that will drive interventions designed to improve cancer
outcomes. Join our collective force and help us lead the way through
your...Knowledge of information governance, patient confidentiality and
data security.Experience working with of health (esp. cancer) data
collection and systemsexperience of implementing and embedding effecting
data management systems and processesProven ability to build and
maintain effective working relationships and partnerships with
colleagues, researchers, clinicians, scientists and other stakeholders
Our relentless drive towards beating cancer means that we're constantly
trying new avenues, which means you'll be innovative and open-minded to
new ways of working.
  
 You'll need the ability to engage and win people over, convey complex
ideas succinctly and provide structure and clarity to an emerging area
of work within the Policy and Information team. You'll also need a
comprehensive appreciation of engaging with and influencing at a senior
level within the NHS and/or Public Health England.
