+++
nid = "8091"
jid = "00610"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2020-01-08 06:44"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8091"
title = "Research Data Management Program Manager"
employer = "UC Berkeley"
employerurl = "https://www.berkeley.edu/"
postdate = "2019-07-07"
archivedate = "2020-01-08"
draft = "false"
+++
UC Berkeley is seeking a service-oriented, collaborative and inclusive
[Research Data Management
Program](https://research-it.berkeley.edu/services/research-data-management-service)
Manager whose principal role will be to oversee the RDM Program, a
program with university-wide scope that is a partnership between the
University Library and Research, Teaching and Learning Services (RTL).
Working collaboratively with a diverse team of experts from multiple
campus departments, the RDM Program Manager ensures the effective
design, coordination, and delivery of the Program's services,
initiatives and projects. They are a campus resource on local, national
and international RDM developments and activities and their impact on
scholarly inquiry and instruction.

The RDM Program Manager leads efforts to establish a robust service that
provides tools, consulting and education to researchers across campus.
In partnership with campus librarians, staff in RTL, academic
departments, campus administrators, campus IT service providers, and the
UC California Digital Library, the position develops educational
materials, deploys technologies, and provides direct assistance to UC
Berkeley scholars on a broad range of topics related to Research Data
Management. The position formulates program strategies, goals, and
plans; directs and controls the program budget and related resources;
and administers the full range of the program's operations and projects
that address complex issues facing researchers working with different
kinds of research data, including restricted and sensitive data that are
subject to different policies and legal frameworks.

Key Responsibilities:

-   Directs and administers the Research Data Management program with
    complete administrative and programmatic responsibility.
-   Facilitates efforts of participating staff from Research, Teaching
    and Learning Services (RTL) and the University Library, and leads
    collaborations with participating staff and leadership in multiple
    campus departments to ensure interdisciplinary collaboration.
-   Identifies and pursues funding opportunities and revenue streams,
    including the development of grant proposals in partnership with
    researchers.
-   Leads programmatic activities to develop and implement new services
    that address significant risks to campus responsibilities regarding
    research data
-   Participates in the program budgeting and accounting processes to
    support the financial infrastructure of the program.
-   Supervises undergraduate and graduate student employees.
-   Assesses program's effectiveness in the areas of consulting,
    training, communication, outreach, service development, gathers
    metrics, and recommends and implements changes to program's
    content, policies and procedures accordingly.
-   Participates in local, national and international professional
    organizations and activities, representing campus in efforts to
    develop Research Data Management services, practices, and knowledge.
  

