+++
nid = "8065"
jid = "00582"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2020-01-02 07:26"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8065"
title = "Social Science Research Data Curator"
employer = "University of California, Santa Barbara"
employerurl = "https://www.ucsb.edu"
postdate = "2019-02-25"
archivedate = "2020-01-02"
draft = "false"
+++
The UC Santa Barbara Library is responding to recent and exciting
changes in scholarship that include the increasing use of digital data
and computational methods; expanding and novel cross-disciplinary data
reuse; new emphases on transparency and reproducibility; concern for
preservation and long-term usability; and the rise of new forms of
scholarly communication including data publication and open access
publishing. The UC Santa Barbara Library seeks a collaborative, dynamic
scholar to foster excellence in data curation.

Reporting to the Director of the Data Curation Program, the Social
Sciences Data Curator is responsible for the planning and implementation
of scholarly initiatives in support of data-intensive research and
digital scholarship in the social sciences on campus with the goal of
ensuring the high functionality, discoverability, and preservability of
digital research data throughout its lifecycle. As part of a growing
team of data curators, the candidate will make substantial contributions
to his/her primary area of responsibility as well as collaborate with
other team members in addressing curation of data from other
disciplines.

In collaboration with data curators, social sciences subject librarians,
and the staff of the Interdisciplinary Research Collaboratory (IRC), the
Social Sciences Data Curator will create and implement the Library's
support plan for social sciences researchers. The candidate will:

•Provide data management consultations and referrals to campus data
creators in support of the research mission of the university.
•Build and contribute expertise in information trends and research
methods in social sciences and related disciplines.
•Be embedded into or otherwise participate in campus research projects.
•Outreach to faculty and assist with adoption of new data management and
curation tools and services in support of faculty research within data
science.
•Build and maintain online data management aids and other
documentation.
•In coordination with the IRC, organize public events and lead trainings
and workshops in the areas of social science data tool use, and data
analysis, publication, management, and curation.

The Social Sciences Data Curator will contribute to local, regional, and
national discussions and initiatives in data curation and digital
scholarship, including the UCSB Digital Arts & Humanities Commons.
Additionally, as a member of the greater University of California
scholarly community, the candidate will participate in systemwide
working groups and efforts, and work with the University of California
Curation Center (UC3) at the California Digital Library to help develop
and promulgate new systemwide services.

 
  

