+++
nid = "8074"
jid = "00591"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2020-01-02 07:47"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8074"
title = "Data Librarian"
employer = "Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas "
employerurl = "https://www.dallasfed.org/"
postdate = "2019-04-04"
archivedate = "2020-01-02"
draft = "false"
+++
**ORGANIZATIONAL SUMMARY:**

As part of the nation's central bank, the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
is committed to strengthening the economy and our communities. At the
Fed, you have the opportunity to become part of an important public
service institution whose work touches lives across the globe. It's a
big job, and that's why we need talented, results-driven professionals
who care about making a difference.

**POSITION SUMMARY:**

The Research department is seeking a **Librarian*
-  to be located in
Dallas, TX. The Librarian will play a vital role in acquiring and
managing data assets and information resources to meet the needs of the
Research department and other stakeholders in the Bank and System.

 

**JOB RESPONSIBILITIES:**

-   Establishes collaborative networks and relationships with Dallas Fed
    researchers, staff in other Reserve Banks, and represents the Bank
    on Federal Reserve System committees and initiatives.
-   Consults with research staff on identifying and finding relevant
    datasets, evaluation of datasets, enhancing existing and new data
    collections, and documenting data use cases.
-   Coordinates the data acquisition process, working with primary
    stakeholders, data providers Legal and Procurement departments, and
    Federal Reserve System Librarians, in the procurement of datasets.
-   Represents researchers' needs in negotiation of data contracts with
    third parties.
-   Maintains the catalog of data resources and provides support to
    users ensuring appropriate use, storage, and disposition of data and
    derivative works.
-   Provides reference/research support services to the Research
    department and other stakeholders in the Bank and System.
-   Provides outreach and training to promote library resources and
    services within the Bank and provides or coordinates training on
    data related resources and services.
-   Works with technical staff to ensure optimal data storage.
-   Monitors accuracy, consistency, and usability of data to ensure
    users will find the information requested.
-   Utilizes expertise in research data management, councils research
    staff on making research data accessible after publication.
  
**JOB REQUIREMENTS:** 

-   Excellent customer service focus.
-   Strong project management, analytical, and organizational skills.
-   Knowledge of, and interest in, business and, secondarily, government
    culture and organization; knowledge of the financial services
    industry and Federal Reserve System is preferred.
-   Broad knowledge of economics, banking, and finance related data
    providers and their products is preferred.
-   Reference experience required (data reference experience a plus),
    good understanding of/ exposure to or familiarity with data storage
    technologies and analytical software.
