+++
nid = "8066"
jid = "00583"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2020-01-02 07:27"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8066"
title = "Digital Scholarship Research Developer"
employer = "Stanford University Libraries’ Center for Interdisciplinary Digital Research (CIDR) "
employerurl = "https://library.stanford.edu/research/cidr"
postdate = "2019-02-25"
archivedate = "2020-01-02"
draft = "false"
+++
The Stanford University Libraries' Center for Interdisciplinary Digital
Research (CIDR) is seeking a full-time Digital Scholarship Research
Developer to build sophisticated, sustainable, and generalizable
projects and platforms in order to support interdisciplinary research in
the computational social sciences and digital humanities at Stanford.
Regular tasks will include analyzing, designing, developing, deploying,
modifying, and maintaining computer programs in systems of moderate size
and complexity or segments of larger systems.

Reporting to the head of CIDR, the successful candidate will join a
distinguished and widely recognized team of software developers and
academic and library technologists with combined decades of expertise in
the computational social sciences and digital humanities. Its activities
support research and teaching in these fields for the Stanford
community. CIDR collaborates both with individual faculty and with
Departments, Centers and Institutes engaged in digital research, such as
the Center for Spatial and Textual Analysis (CESTA); the Institute for
Research in the Social Sciences (IRiSS); the Stanford Humanities Center;
and the Center for Computational Social Sciences. CIDR is also a hub for
collaboration and communication among social science and digital
humanities scholars, library curators, and professional developers,
promoting a sense of shared purpose in support of the Stanford mission
of research and teaching.

The candidate will also contribute to the CIDR workshop series through
planning and teaching pragmatic, interactive workshops related to
digital scholarship. Through this activity and others, the candidate
will promote and represent CIDR, improving the visibility of its
programs and its reputation across campus and beyond; liaise with peers
at other academic institutions and in industry; publish and present at
professional conferences; review professional literature; participate in
discussion groups and other forums to stay abreast of new methodologies
and practices relevant to the computational social sciences and digital
humanities.
  
The successful candidate will be a skilled software developer with a
deep understanding of scholarship in the social sciences or the
humanities. The candidate will consult and collaborate with faculty on
scholarly projects to identify technical approaches, processes and
tools; evaluate and integrate existing software tools; and design and
implement new solutions. The candidate should have both a broad and deep
understanding of current state of the art in computational social
sciences or digital humanities projects, as well as experience
developing full-stack software for one or more of these domains:
information visualization; statistical and textual analysis; natural
language processing; large dataset management and transformation;
digital content creation, storage, and discovery; geospatial analysis;
high-performance and secure computing concepts; or network analysis.
