+++
nid = "8099"
jid = "00618"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2020-01-08 07:32"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8099"
title = "Data Librarian (10 month term)"
employer = "Dalhousie University "
employerurl = "https://www.dal.ca/"
postdate = "2019-09-20"
archivedate = "2020-01-08"
draft = "false"
+++
The Role:

The Data Librarian provides system-wide leadership in the delivery of
data services, reporting to the AUL Library Services. The Data Librarian
fosters and responds to the growing interest in the application and use
of data, datasets and geospatial concepts and techniques as part of the
research agenda of faculty and students. The development and provision
of data services will involve working with colleagues from all libraries
in the Dalhousie Libraries system. The Data Librarian will coordinate
data-related training and professional development opportunities for
librarian colleagues to achieve excellence in the delivery of data
services. Research, liaison, collections and instructional duties for
assigned subject areas will be located at the Killam Memorial Library
for the Department of Psychology & Neuroscience, the Integrated Science
Program and the Faculty of Computer Science.

Main Areas of Responsibility:

-   Provides leadership and expertise in coordinating, planning and
    delivering library services related to the collection, discovery,
    use, and management of locally and externally available geospatial
    and numeric data across the Dalhousie Libraries
-   Provides specialized reference service and instruction to faculty,
    graduate, and undergraduate students in the use of spatial and
    numeric data.
-   Delivers effective data research instruction for individuals, groups
    and classes. Supports the development of data literacy and numeracy
    skills, and liaises with instructors to promote and facilitate the
    use of data in their classes.
-   Leads workshops on various aspects of data/GIS services and
    applications, data visualization tools, and statistical software.
-   Performs collections and liaison duties in the sciences.
-   Works in partnership with the Research Data Management (RDM) team,
    sharing expertise and knowledge.
-   As the Data Liberation Initiative (DLI) and Interuniversity
    Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR) representative,
    promotes access to Statistics Canada Public Use Microdata Files
    (PUMF) via various platforms, downloads microdata files as necessary
    and provides appropriate support.
-   Provides in-depth consultation and information services in the
    discovery and use of Canadian statistical resources (e.g. Census,
    Stat Can Data Tables), survey data, and data access resources and
    tools (e.g. CHASS, Nesstar, ODESI, ICPSR).
-   Promotes the use of geospatial data and the services provided by the
    Dal Libraries' GIS Centre based on the analysis of constituents'
    needs, and in the context of other value-added services provided by
    the Libraries.
-   Performs subject specialist liaison duties for the Department of
    Psychology & Neuroscience, the Integrated Science Program and the
    Faculty of Computer Science, including research assistance,
    systematic review support and collection management.
-   Actively participates in key data groups -- e.g. DLI, IASSIST and
    ICPSR.
-   Performs other related duties as assigned.
  
Required Qualifications:

-   An MLIS degree from an ALA accredited program or equivalent.
-   Excellent oral and written communication skills.
-   Ability to communicate effectively with students and researchers of
    varying levels of technical expertise.
-   Proven ability to engage students and enhance learning outcomes
    through effective teaching techniques and the use of appropriate
    educational technologies.
-   Demonstrable knowledge of a wide variety of Canadian and
    international data sources.
-   Demonstrated ability to effectively liaise with faculty and students
    and work collaboratively to achieve the library's goals and
    strategic plan. • Excellent analytical project management skills.
-   Willingness to share expertise, work in teams and negotiate
    solutions with diverse groups.

Preferred Qualifications

-   Bachelor of Science, Computer Science, or Psychology degree, or
    demonstrated professional experience in the sciences, computer
    science, or psychology.
-   Previous experience with one or more of SDA, ODESI, NESSTAR or
    similar data extractor/ delivery system.
-   Demonstrable working knowledge with one or more statistical software
    packages such as R, STATA, SAS, MATLAB or SPSS.
-   Experience with common qualitative and quantitative research
    methods, descriptive statistics and data analysis tools &
    techniques.
-   General knowledge of spatial analysis and GIS applications (e.g.
    ArcGIS).
-   Interest in and capacity for conducting research.
-   Experience with delivering academic library services such as
    instruction and liaison to one or more science disciplines.
-   Proven ability to work independently and collegially as a productive
    member of a team.
-   Proven ability to promote respect and inclusion by working
    successfully with a wide variety of people and encouraging their
    participation and involvement.
