+++
nid = "8089"
jid = "00607"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2020-01-07 09:01"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8089"
title = "Research Librarian "
employer = "American Federation of State, County & Municipal Employees (AFSCME)"
employerurl = "https://afscme.org/"
postdate = "2019-06-18"
archivedate = "2020-01-07"
draft = "false"
+++
**Duties, Requirements and Desired Qualifications**

This position is responsible for providing information and research
services to union staff and leadership. The ideal candidate will be
adept at: selecting and distributing news and other relevant information
for a targeted audience, researching, analyzing, and disseminating
information from diverse sources in response to patron requests,
contributing to the management, organization, and assessment of the
library collection, and providing outreach and instruction services for
users of the Information Center. 

 **Duties:**

-   Curates and assembles a daily email newsletter from a wide variety
    of sources, comprehensively covering key developments in topics of
    interest to AFSCME.
-   Researches, retrieves, analyzes and disseminates information from
    electronic and print sources in response to reference requests.
-   Synthesizes research findings into structured, digestible reports
    for a variety of audiences.
-   Assists with collection management responsibilities including
    cataloging, identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions,
    shelving and weeding the collection. 
-   Performs outreach and instructional services for staff and provides
    access, assistance and support for Information Center resources.
-   Researches, selects and independently assembles and distributes
    articles for AFSCME Information Center blogs. 
-   Creates fact sheets, user guides, and other documentation on
    internal and external electronic communications to foster user
    self-sufficiency.
-   Conducts presentations or instructional sessions for internal and
    external audiences.
-   Remains knowledgeable on issues affecting AFSCME members.
-   May supervise clerical support staff.
-   Performs other general duties as assigned. 
  
**Education and Experience Requirements:**

Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university; an
advanced degree in library or information science is strongly preferred,
and three to five years of experience in a library or similar setting
which provides the following skills. 

 

**Skills Requirements:**

-   Ability to identify requestors' needs through use of reference
    interviews and craft effective search strategies to address those
    needs.
-   Ability to synthesize research findings and write clear, organized
    reports of research results based on the identified information
    need.
-   Skilled in the use of digital technologies and experienced with
    electronic library information systems, databases and other
    information management and retrieval tools.
-   Ability to perform sound research and make logical conclusions.
-   Ability to evaluate, abstract and analyze data and technical
    information from diverse sources.
-   Knowledge of library administration principles.
-   Experience with knowledge and information management principles,
    strategies and technologies.
-   Ability to develop positive working relationships with colleagues
    and Information Center users.
-   Ability to effectively manage multiple demands and deadlines and to
    balance short- and long-term priorities.
-   Ability to communicate effectively both orally and in writing.
-   Commitment to AFSCME's mission.

 

**Desired Qualifications:**

-   Working knowledge of advanced search logic techniques and optimal
    usage of complex legal, business and news databases.
-   Experience with library technical services including administration
    of OPAC software or other discovery systems and knowledge of
    metadata and cataloging standards.
-   Familiarity with data and information management technologies such
    as content management system administration, HTML, digital asset
    management and relational database structures.
-   Interest in labor relations and public sector institutions, law and
    policy issues.
