+++
nid = "8104"
jid = "00623"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2020-01-08 08:42"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8104"
title = "Graduate Intern, Research Library (Two positions)"
employer = "Federal Reserve Board"
employerurl = "https://www.federalreserve.gov"
postdate = "2019-10-15"
archivedate = "2020-01-08"
draft = "false"
+++
The Research Library is offering a paid summer internship for graduate
level library or information science students. We offer a full array of
desktop and customized library services to staff members at the Board
and assist in data intensive and web-dependent Board Research.

The Research Library intern will help improve library services to the
Board research and professional community. The intern will work on
several of the following projects that represent a variety of the
library's responsibilities.

Preparing for Library Move*

-   Perform collection management and other tasks in preparation for
    move. These include deaccessioning materials within a set of
    guidelines, offering and shipping materials to other Federal
    libraries, discarding withdrawn materials, shifting materials to
    reduce large shelving gaps, measuring and tracking what is removed,
    and updating records and documentation for material disposition.

*This responsibility could potentially represent the majority of the
internship hours.

Data Inventory Catalog Record Enrichment

-   Assist with the curation and cataloging of data sets using
    international and local standards and practices, potentially
    including stakeholder interviews. Enrich dataset records using
    subject analysis and normalization of inconsistent metadata, and
    researching/populating content for new metadata fields.
-   Assist with authority control and data cleanup of vendor records.
    Link research with data assets used in research, to display in data
    inventory. Process and analyze search logs for controlled subject
    vocabulary term enrichment.

Scholarly Research and Communications

-   Create researcher IDs (ORCID, etc.) for Board authors and connect
    those IDs to author publications.
-   Assist with moving institutional repository to responsive design.
    Survey users regarding institutional repository and scholarly
    communications.

Taxonomy Standardization

-   Review scope notes to standardize formats, update taxonomy terms in
    SharePoint, and apply taxonomy terms to catalog records.
    

Research

-   Research and report out on several topics of interest to library
    strategy, including issues in scholarly communications, research
    data, and library management.
    

Marketing

-   Draft a presentation and outreach materials to promote data mapping
    resources.
-   Assist with review of general marketing materials.
  
Position Requirements


Enrolled in a Master's degree program in library or information science
at an ALA-accredited institution

Knowledge and interest in library technology

A minimum of 15-20 credits in foundational library science coursework

Attention to detail, initiative, and good communication skills a must
