+++
nid = "8088"
jid = "00608"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2020-01-07 08:59"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8088"
title = "Research Data Curator"
employer = "Stanford University Libraries’ Center for Interdisciplinary Digital Research (CIDR)"
employerurl = "https://library.stanford.edu/research/cidr"
postdate = "2019-06-24"
archivedate = "2020-01-07"
draft = "false"
+++
The Research Data Curator will support the creation and development of a
standards-based research data ecosystem and work closely with librarians
who acquire research data. The successful candidate will work with
librarians and data specialists who will help re-envision the Library's
role within the research data lifecycle and who can respond to and
support new research methods being used by Stanford's research
community. The Research Data Curator will help to ensure that Stanford
Libraries-acquired collections of qualitative data, quantitative data,
text corpora, and software are properly evaluated, structured,
described, and accessioned into the Libraries' digital collections and
are made discoverable, accessible and usable for researchers at the
University. This position will add value to existing research data
services by tying together in a holistic way Stanford Library's
strengths in supporting faculty research grounded in a data lifecycle
perspective. This position would actively participate in promoting and
incorporating FAIR data principles into our strategic planning.
  
**Education & Experience:**

Advanced Degree in Library Science or a relevant academic discipline
with demonstrated understanding of academic libraries and two or more
years of relevant experience in a relevant library setting or a
combination of education and relevant experience.

**Preferred Education & Experience:**

Masters or Ph.D. in information science, data science, or a related
field.

**Knowledge, Skills and Abilities:**


-   Experience with relevant aspects of library operations including
    understanding of contemporary library practices, trends and emerging
    technologies.
-   Demonstrated understanding of the broad scope of library operations
    with ability to understand how their role interacts with the rest of
    the organization.
-   Ability to work effectively in a team environment and negotiate
    issues with people from different parts of the library.
-   Ability to identify challenges and opportunities, engage others in
    their resolution and recommend appropriate courses of action.
-   Demonstrated ability to evaluate online resources in terms of
    content quality, functionality and user interface issues.
-   Ability to independently perform complex job functions such as
    collection management reviews, preparation of major exhibits,
    developing policies for business practices.
-   Consistent display of strong verbal and written communication
    skills.
-   Demonstrated bibliographic expertise or basic managerial/supervisory
    skills.
