+++
nid = "8072"
jid = "00589"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2020-01-02 07:42"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8072"
title = "Data Services Specialist "
employer = "Princeton University"
employerurl = "https://www.princeton.edu/"
postdate = "2019-04-01"
archivedate = "2020-01-02"
draft = "false"
+++
Data Services Specialists play a critical role in academic research and
instruction at Princeton University. We are looking for a Data Services
Specialist to help our world class researchers. Princeton juniors and
seniors are required to conduct substantive independent research
including a senior thesis. While faculty and graduate research is a
substantial part of our service, undergraduate assistance forms the
bulk. The DSS provides direct assistance in a lab environment. For more
detail on Data and Statistical Services, see
<https://dss.princeton.edu/> The successful candidate will:

-   exhibit excellent interpersonal skills when working with a diverse
    group of highly motivated researchers in an inclusive and welcoming
    environment
-   help shape quantitative and qualitative research through innovative
    methods and approaches
-   provide statistical and software consulting services for
    undergraduates, graduate students and faculty engaged in
    quantitative data analysis in a variety of academic disciplines,
    particularly economics, finance, politics, public policy, and
    sociology
-   assist in the choice, application, and interpretation of
    quantitative research methods, and with the use of statistical
    software needed to implement these methods
-   engage in individual consultation and group instruction
-   continuously learn new methods, software, and approaches, indicating
    a growth mindset
-   maintain efficient operation of the Data and Statistical Services
    (DSS) Lab and digital data archive
-   retrieve/manipulate complex data from a variety of sources; transfer
    data between platforms for use in multiple computing environments
-   create documentation and maintain web presence
-   evaluate and design web-based access tools and end user systems
-   process data and create metadata for files in the data archive
  

Required: Master's degree and intermediate to expert experience with
STATA and R. Strong research methods background with focus on
quantitative data analysis and computing.Preferred: Advanced degree in a
quantitative social science such as economics, political science, or
sociology or equivalent experience. Demonstrated ability and experience
functioning successfully in a fast-paced environment with a strong
service orientation. Experience using complex machine-readable data;
programming ability. Expert level Stata and R. Experience with
qualitative data software. Strong econometrics background or familiarity
with social sciences, economic and/or financial data. Expertise with
other statistical packages, particularly SAS, SPSS, and MATLAB.
