+++
nid = "8097"
jid = "00616"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2020-01-08 07:02"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8097"
title = "Business Librarian "
employer = "Seton Hall University "
employerurl = "https://www.shu.edu/"
postdate = "2019-09-12"
archivedate = "2020-01-08"
draft = "false"
+++
Seton Hall University Libraries seeks a forward-thinking Business
Librarian who is collaborative and data savvy, to serve as the subject
liaison to the Stillman College of Business to provide teaching,
collection development, and data services that can work efficiently in a
fast-paced, evolving technological, team-oriented environment. This is a
tenure-eligible full-time Library faculty position, requiring a second
graduate degree, annual reviews (including a comprehensive third year
review), and scholarship for promotion and tenure.

Seton Hall University Libraries is an equal opportunity employer and
recognizes and values the benefits of a diverse workplace.

Duties and Responsibilities:

-    Build and cultivate relationships at Stillman and the Buccino
    Leadership Institute with students, faculty, administration and
    staff. Create and maintain a liaison support plan. Develop library
    outreach opportunities and participate in Stillman events.
-   Collaborate with subject librarians to build robust services and
    collections supporting business research and education.
-   Provide instruction to business departments for in-person, hybrid,
    and online courses to support student learning and success.
    Incorporate best practices for information and data literacy for the
    Business School and the Seton Hall Community.
-   Provide instruction for first year instruction programs and other
    programs such as Zotero or simple GIS (PolicyMap) as needed.
-   Develop and deliver data-related services and online learning
    materials for Stillman; provide consultative support for the data
    related needs of Seton Hall faculty and students, such as finding
    data sets, assisting with quantitative and qualitative data analysis
    software, and data management planning with the Data Services Team.
-   Partner with library colleagues in areas such as instructional
    design and user engagement/assessment to enhance discipline-based
    library services.
-   Provide a full range of in-person and virtual reference services to
    the University community (with some evening or weekend shifts
    depending on course schedules or Stillman events) and consultations
    for business-related research and data user issues.
  
Required Qualifications:

-   MLS from an ALA-accredited graduate program.
-   A degree (undergraduate or graduate) in business, economics,
    marketing, management or related field or three or more years of
    successful academic library experience at a university with a
    Business School.
-   Current awareness of trends in library public services for one or
    more of these areas: business, leadership, entrepreneurship, sports
    management, economics or supply chain management.
-   Experience providing library instruction, or creating library
    instruction materials such as assignments, research guides and
    tutorials for college-level students and faculty.
-   Experience providing business information, reference and research
    consultation service in an academic library setting.
-   Evidence of a strong commitment to student-centered services.
-   Extensive knowledge of academic electronic information resources,
    data services and technologies, and an awareness of current issues
    in academic libraries.
-   Evidence of excellent oral and written communication, teaching, and
    analytical skills.
-   Established willingness to respond to new opportunities with
    initiative, creative energy, and leadership.
-   Demonstrated commitment to diversity and inclusion.
-   Proven ability to work collaboratively and independently.

 

Desired Qualifications:

-   Experience working in a business field such as accounting, finance,
    management or marketing.
-   Proficiency with MS Excel advanced functions (Pivot Tables, data
    analysis) and statistical packages such as SPSS. Knowledge or
    willingness to learn one programming language such as R or Python.
-   Familiarity building and maintaining print and digital collections.
-   Experience contributing to library outreach initiatives.
-   Practice using new and emerging technologies for public service and
    instruction in an academic library setting including data services.
-   Evidence of problem solving skills and project management
    experience.
