+++
nid = "8064"
jid = "00581"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2020-01-02 07:23"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8064"
title = "Data Librarian"
employer = "University of Windsor"
employerurl = "http://www.uwindsor.ca/"
postdate = "2019-02-25"
archivedate = "2020-01-02"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Windsor's Leddy Library invites applications for a
permanence-track Data Librarian position commencing July 1, 2019. Rank
will be commensurate with experience. This position is subject to final
budgetary approval.

Reporting to the Head of Information Services, the Data Librarian will
be responsible for developing data collections relevant to the campus
community. They will provide leadership in the development of data
literacy programmes at the University of Windsor. This includes working
with faculty to integrate data literacy into the curricula of relevant
courses of study and developing data subsets and other teaching tools to
facilitate the use of data for instructional purposes. The incumbent
will also provide leadership in implementing programs for long-term data
storage for local research data, through the implementation of
appropriate software platforms, the promotion of good data collection
and storage habits across campus, the preparation of local databases for
long-term archiving, and the oversight of metadata standards development
and metadata production. Throughout their career, Information Services
librarians serve in a variety of roles within the department and the
library.

The Leddy Library is an active partner in teaching and research at the
University. Librarians engage in service to the University, service to
the profession, and research/scholarship/creative activity in addition
to their assigned responsibilities.
  
The successful candidate will have: an ALA-accredited MLS (or
equivalent); data experience and some educational background in the use
of data sets, applications and software, as well as experience using
statistical and data software packages such as SPSS, NVivo, R and SAS;
knowledge of Canadian statistical resources including the Census, and
survey data, and some background in U.S. and international resources; a
strong understanding of current and emerging trends in research data
management, data services, resource delivery and software, including the
role of the Data Liberation Initiative (DLI), ICPSR, the Data
Documentation Initiative (DDI), and web-based data discovery and
analysis tools; excellent teaching and communication skills; and must
also exhibit resourcefulness, innovation, and flexibility in meeting
user needs, be able to work independently and as part of a team, and
have a comfort in and ability to adapt to a changing structure and
environment. Demonstrated interest in creating and maintaining online
resources and services for the discovery and delivery of data resources
and information including the Academic Data Centre website is an asset,
as is an understanding of geospatial data and GIS software applications.
