+++
nid = "8093"
jid = "00612"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2020-01-08 06:49"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8093"
title = "Data & eResources Librarian"
employer = "Harvard University"
employerurl = "https://www.harvard.edu/"
postdate = "2019-07-15"
archivedate = "2020-01-08"
draft = "false"
+++
Reporting to the Associate Director and in support of the mission of the
Harvard Kennedy School (HKS), the Data and eResources Librarian leads
the advancement of licensed content and collections and the expansion
and inclusion of data services and programming for students and staff at
LKS. Actively participates in research and instruction and outreach
activities across HKS as well as represents LKS on relevant Harvard
Library Committees and working groups.

Position responsibilities:

-   Takes the lead on investigating and analyzing complex e-resources,
    data, products and subscriptions, including conducting regular and
    ad hoc data reporting on usage of eResources, making recommendations
    to the Director and Associate Director on acquisitions and renewals,
    and communicating out changes and updates to the relevant LKS staff.
-   Works with relevant LKS (and Harvard Library) staff to build and
    facilitate access to an outstanding collection of information
    resources, increasingly digital and interdisciplinary in scope, in
    support of current and future research, teaching and knowledge
    creation at HKS and across the University.
-   Maintains and shares in-depth knowledge in the identification,
    assessment, and implementation of trends and emerging technologies
    that strategically advance the LKS' mission.
-   Serves as a resource to faculty, staff, and students on issues of
    research computing, data curation and management and assumes an
    active role in learning about emerging trends and practices.
-   Participates in library outreach and instruction activities at HKS
    and the University, in close collaboration and coordination with the
    Manger of User Services and Engagement, including providing
    orientations and research support to students, faculty and staff, as
    well as developing stronger partnerships with relevant departments
    and initiatives at HKS.
-   Investigates, implements, and maintains an assessment plan to report
    on core LKS activities, such as course instruction.
-   Represents LKS on relevant Harvard Library and Harvard data-related
    groups to advance LKS' work to meet the changing needs of our
    community.

**Additional Information**

Physical demands and work environment:

-   Using a computer for long periods of time.
-   Ability to travel around campus regularly.
-   Ability to occasional move boxes weighing approximately 20 lbs.

We regret that the Harvard Kennedy School does not provide Visa
Sponsorship.

Harvard University requires pre-employment references and background
checks.
Harvard University is committed to supporting a healthy, sustainable
learning and working environment.
  
**Basic (Required) Qualifications**

-   Master's Degree in Library and Information Science from an ALA
    accredited institution.
-   Minimum 4 years of Library experience.
-   Experience or course work in statistics.

**Additional (Preferred) Qualifications**

-   Comfort with basic statistical principles and relevant tools.
-   Strong customer service orientation with experience in the delivery
    of user services.
-   Demonstrated ability to work effectively in a collaborative and/or
    team environment.
-   Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, both oral and
    written.
    Experience with or knowledge of Learning Management Systems and/or
    Content Management Systems.
-   Familiarity with current digital technologies and proficiency using
    a variety of computer software programs and systems.
-   Experience with or knowledge of quantitative and qualitative
    research methods, research computing, and research data management
    and curation.
