+++
nid = "8069"
jid = "00586"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2020-01-02 07:34"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8069"
title = "Assistant/Associate Director for Empirical Research and Data Support Services"
employer = "Goodson Law Library at Duke "
employerurl = "https://web.law.duke.edu/lib/"
postdate = "2019-03-13"
archivedate = "2020-01-02"
draft = "false"
+++
Reporting to the Associate Dean of Information Services and Technology,
the newly-created position of Assistant/Associate Director for Empirical
Research and Data Support Services leads the work of the law library's
empirical research support services and data services, including
cataloging, processing, and maintenance of library resources in all
formats. The AD for Empirical Research and Data Support Services is a
vital member of the Law Library leadership team, directly supervising
two professional staff members, participating in shaping library policy
and strategic management, and assisting with the planning, evaluation,
and monitoring of quality Law Library programs and services.

The position may be filled at the academic rank of Associate Librarian
or Librarian, depending upon the candidate's experience.

**Responsibilities:**

**Data Support and Empirical Research Services:** Leads the library's
efforts in providing consultative and active support to Law School
faculty and students in research projects requiring statistical and data
analysis, data manipulation, and visualization.  In keeping with the Law
Library's commitment to open access initiatives, exposes and makes
discoverable digital content and resources.  Maintains an understanding
of trends and developments in data services and information technology
and contributes this expertise to planning for the future growth and
development of the Law Library.  Collaborates with the Law School
Academic Technologies department and others to coordinate the management
of Law faculty empirical datasets and database projects. Supervises the
work of the Empirical Research Analyst and works closely with the
Technology and Research Services Librarian in providing data
visualization and geospatial analytic services to faculty and students.

**Management of Resource Discovery:** Oversees the work of the Digital
Resources Librarian, who is responsible for original and copy cataloging
of materials in all formats, metadata creation, data scraping, and
database maintenance, and supervises a team of staff members and student
interns.

Working closely with the Law School Academic Technologies department,
the AD for Empirical Research and Data Services may develop and manage
special projects to facilitate resource discovery and highlight
collections, including digitization and database implementation
projects.

**Reference, Instruction, and Research**:  Provides support to Law
School faculty members and collaborators on empirical research and data
services projects. Develops and teaches law school specialized workshops
and training. Depending upon qualifications of successful candidate, may
be appointed to the Law School non-tenure track adjunct faculty at the
rank of Lecturing Fellow and develop/teach for-credit research courses,
and/or participate in the library's faculty liaison librarian program.
  
**Requirements:**  M.L.I.S. or other advanced-level degree; knowledge of
and interest in empirical research methods; knowledge of and interest in
new and emerging technologies;  demonstrated experience in developing
projects and seeing them through to completion; strong service
orientation; demonstrable teaching/training skills; excellent written
and oral communication and interpersonal skills; ability to lead and
function in a collegial, teamwork-oriented environment which emphasizes
customer service and delivery of stellar library services; creativity
and adaptability in the face of competing priorities; demonstrated
service to the legal information profession through professional
contributions and engagement.

**Preferred:**  J.D. from ABA-accredited school or non-U.S. equivalent;
three to five years of increasingly responsible experience working in an
academic and/or law library; interest or experience in grant writing and
collaboration with outside entities to further the open and public
interest mission of the law school; experience or familiarity working
with integrated library systems, reporting tools, and library-related
computer standards.  The library is part of the university ILS, which is
scheduled to move to the FOLIO open source library services platform in
2020.
