+++
nid = "8107"
jid = "00624"
uid = "157"
deprecated-post-date = "2020-01-31 06:24"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8107"
title = "Digital Research Support Specialist (paraprofessional) - short deadline!"
employer = "University Libraries at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill"
employerurl = "https://unc.peopleadmin.com/postings/176387"
postdate = "2020-01-31"
archivedate = "2020-01-31"
draft = "false"
+++
This is a great opportunity for a new graduate, and offers opportunities
for rapid growth in experience and skills.  

The UNC University Libraries is hiring a Digital Research Support
Specialist to manage our service desk, assist library patrons with data
and GIS questions, and assist with workshops and communications in the
Davis Library Research Hub.

This position will be in the Digital Research Services Department, which
provides research support for data services, GIS, data visualization,
and digital humanities.

This is an excellent opportunity for someone with data skills who would
enjoy providing research assistance to a diverse group of library
patrons. Our staff enjoy variety in our work and share a collaborative,
problem-solving culture.

Even though the position is posting now, we encourage students who will
be graduating in May to apply. We could postpone the start date for the
right applicant!

**This position will only post for five days, so please apply as soon
as possible!**
  
Minimum Education and Experience Requirements:  High school diploma or
equivalency and two years of experience in library services, office
support, or related field; or equivalent combination of training and
experience.

Essential Skills, Knowledge and Abilities:

The Digital Research Support Specialist must have:
• Strong analytical skills, especially the ability to analyze data sets
in order to draw conclusions.
• Excellent communication skills, including the ability to write and
speak clearly while conveying complex ideas.
• Strong commitment to customer service.
• Attention to detail.
• Experience with data processing and/or visualization/mapping and
familiarity with methods for data preparation and analysis.
• Proficient in data/mapping/visualization software such as Excel,
Tableau, [QGIS]{.caps}, and/or the Esri software suite.
• Excellent communication skills, including the ability to write and
speak clearly while conveying complex ideas.

Preferred Qualifications:

• Some familiarity with relevant programming languages such as
[SQL]{.caps}, R, and/or Python
• Graduation from a four-year college or university
• Supervisory experience
• Experience organizing and/or promoting events
• Experience tutoring, teaching, or providing one-on-one assistance in a
service environment

Special Physical and Mental Requirements:  Ability to move 30 pounds
with or without accommodation -- for moving tables and chairs to set up
spaces for programs and instruction.

  ------------------- ------------
  Date First Posted   01/30/2020
  Closing Date        02/06/2020
  ------------------- ------------
