+++
nid = "3164"
uid = "22"
author = "t.alatera"
title = "Minutes 2011"
oldpath = "/about/minutes-2011"
date = "2012-06-17 05:07:27 -0700"
draft = "false"
+++
Meeting of the General Assembly, Thursday, June 2, 2011 Vancouver,
British Columbia, Canada

1. Welcome
----------

2. Approval of Minutes from 2010 Meeting
----------------------------------------

MOVED to approve the minutes of the annual general meeting of June 3rd,
2010 as submitted. Moved: W. Watkins, seconded M. Edwards. The motion
CARRIED.

3. Treasurer's Report - J. Green
---------------------------------

The treasury is healthy. Last year we made a small profit and we have
sufficient reserves. The committees will be discussing details of making
an investment in the areas of administrative structure and the Fellows
program.

4. Regional Reports - distributed on the table
----------------------------------------------

Regional reports were distributed on the tables. They can also be found
on the public and membership web sites.

5. Introduction of newly elected Regional Secretaries
-----------------------------------------------------

Two new regional secretaries take office this year. L. Woolfrey is the
new regional secretary for Africa, S. Spencer is the new regional
secretary for Asia-Pacific, and the other positions remain unchanged.

6. Committee Reports
--------------------

*Communication -- R. Rice and K. Boye Rasmussen*

R. Rice reported that the Publications Committee will become the
Communications Committee. There will need to be a new charge as we think
carefully about the ways IASSIST communicates. W. Piovesan has stepped
down as chair and R. Rice will take his place. In a "web site by the
numbers" report, R. Rice mentioned some of the work of the twelve
members of the web team: they have held 20 Skype meetings, twelve
featured members, eleven years of past conference presentations, all
back issues of the IQ are scanned and will be posted soon, 301 tweets
and a few less Facebook posts, thirty-four blog posts, and one hundred
new resources on data management and curation. All members are able to
post to the blog -- use the "contact us" for questions. K. Boye
Rasmussen said that there is a short report on the web site that
everyone should check out. He also encouraged everyone to participate
through authoring articles or editing.

*Education -- M. Edwards*

Outgoing chair M. Edwards thanked all the workshop presenters. She looks
forward to working with the committee as it becomes the Professional
Development Committee, which will be chaired by P. Lackie and L. Kellam.

*Membership -- L. Timms-Ferera*

The organization has 285 members and we are growing. The proportion made
up by US members has shrunk from 70% to 50%, reflecting that we are more
diverse now, too. Eleven per cent of members are from government. More
details are in the report on the web site. The new chair for membership
will be T. Lindsay.

*Constitutional Review -- A. Green*

The committee has been working on a review of the constitution to bring
it up to date and reflect the strategic plan. The goal is to have a
final draft to the Administrative Committee and then have the membership
review it before a vote in December.

*Elections -- E. Boyko*

2011 is an election year and there are new officers to report. B. Block
will be the incoming president and T. Alaterä will be vice president.
The full listing of election results are on the web site.

*IASSIST Fellows -- P. Lackie*

There are some questions about how we will move forward with outreach.
This year IASSIST funded a Bolivian Fellow, E. Barbosa. New people will
be in the leadership role: J. Roberts will become the chair with a
co-chair who is yet to be announced. The Professional Development
Committee will have an upcoming membership survey, which will help us
recruit for Fellows.

*Program -- T. Alaterä, B. Downs, E. Boyko*

Thanks to all the committee chairs. There are many great presentations
to come. There will be a great team working on the program next year: P.
Heus from the World Bank, W. Zenk-Moeltgen from GESIS, and J. Carlson
from Purdue.

7. Conference Reports and Announcements
---------------------------------------

The conference in Ithaca made over $6000 in profit and had much higher
attendance than normal. T. Mulcahy and NORC will host IASSIST 2012 in
DC, June 4-8. From May 29 to June 3, 2013 GESIS will host the conference
in Cologne, Germany. Expressions of interest are welcome for 2014-2015.

8. Action Groups
----------------

*Membership Survey Action Group -- S. Mowers*

R. Womack and T. Lindsay worked on this group. We hope to have a survey
out by early summer. Thanks to all who worked on the survey and we
encourage everyone to participate in the survey when it comes out.

*Organizational Linkages Action Group -- L. Kellam*

The role of this group is to create links from IASSIST to other groups
doing data. A good example is the ACRL DIG group led by J. Darragh. If
you are in another organization, give me your business card to create
linkages.

*e-Community Infrastructure Action Group -- B. Wandschneider and R.
Nakao*

We completed everything in the charge for this group and from here on it
is being rolled into the work of the Communications Committee.

*Interest Group Development Action Group*

No report.

*Data Management Curation and Good Practices Action Group -- K. McNeill*

The initial mission of this group is accomplished with the completion of
a set of resources around data curation and management. We want your
thoughts on how this resource is serving you.

*Engaging Spanish Speakers AG -- L. Martinez, S. Macdonald*

We will be starting with a focus on Spain, then moving to Portugal and
South America. We will have more to report at the next conference.

9. Interest Groups
------------------

*Interest Group on Human Subjects Review Committee and Privacy and
Confidentiality in Research -- L Bishop*

This is a new group, but no one is here to report.

*Data Citation Interest Group -- M. Vardigan*

M. Vardigan reported on this group that she is co-chairing with M. Witt.
They are communicating over Google Groups -- 16 people met yesterday.
Please consider joining.

10. Other Business
------------------

None.

11. Adjourn
-----------

M. Wright wants to say goodbye and feels good about handing things over
to B. Block.

MOVED to adjourn the annual general meeting.
Moved: E. Boyko; seconded B. Block. The motion CARRIED.
