+++
nid = "1556"
jid = "00012"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1556"
title = "Archives Specialist"
employer = "USA National Archives"
employerurl = "http://www.archives.gov/"
postdate = "2005-11-17"
archivedate = "2005-12-31"
draft = "false"
+++
Preserving the past . . . for the future. Join the National Archives and
Records Administration (NARA) team and help build the gateway to the
vast and rich records which celebrate our American heritage. NARA is at
the forefront in fields from document preservation to electronic
records. By ensuring ready access to the essential evidence of our
government and the national experience, NARA is uniquely important in a
democratic system that depends upon the preservation and availability of
such documentation."

You will review agency electronic records containing statistical
economic and demographic data and consisting of email with attachments,
PDF documents, and geographical information systems to review the
appraisal of their archival value and accession them into the National
Archives, Electronic /Special Media Records Services Division, located
at 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD. Relocation expenses will NOT be
paid.

The headquarters site for the National Archives and Records
Administration (NARA) is a new, state-of-the-art building in suburban
Maryland. Adjoining the campus of the University of Maryland, NARA's
building is located in a wooded area that offers both beauty and privacy
yet has convenient access to urban amenities and to the Beltway.
Pleasant working conditions, the latest in equipment, a full-service
cafeteria, a fitness center, free parking, a jogging path, a childcare
center. NARA's building has the kinds of features that attract new
employees today.
  
To be considered for this position, you must have 1 year of specialized
experience at least equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal
service.

Specialized Experience is experience which shows that you have the
knowledges, skills, and abilities to perform the duties of this position
successfully. This type of experience is typically in or related to
performing accessioning, description, preservation, interpretation,
manipulation, research and analysis of, and reference on records in
electronic format.

Time-in-grade restrictions apply for current Federal employees applying
under merit promotion procedures. You must have one year of Federal
service at the GS-11 to be eligible for a GS-12. Time-in-grade
restrictions do not apply under public notice procedures.

You must be a U.S. citizen to qualify for this position.

A background investigation will be required for this position; a
preliminary criminal history check and credit check may be initiated
prior to final offer of employment.
