+++
nid = "1553"
jid = "00010"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1553"
title = "Data Centre Manager"
employer = "Leddy Library, University of Windsor"
employerurl = "http://www.uwindsor.ca/library/leddy"
postdate = "2005-10-31"
archivedate = "2005-12-31"
draft = "false"
+++
The Manager will be the lead in establishing the Academic Data Centre
(ADC) and guiding it towards the fulfilment of its mandate in the areas
of University research, statistical literacy, and data archiving. This
includes hiring and supervision of staff for the Centre and managing the
Centre's daily operations. This person would also play a key role in
the management of the proposed satellite Statistics Canada Research Data
Centre (RDC) on campus. The Manager will work in close collaboration
with the Data Librarian, with Library staff, and with faculty and other
staff from the campus community. With the Data Librarian, the Manager
will market data services on campus and promote information literacy
with respect to methodological and statistical data training activities.
S/he will also contribute to outreach provincially, nationally, and
internationally, with respect to data analysis and support.
  
Experience or educational background in the use of data sets is
essential. Educational background must include an undergraduate degree
in a quantitative social science or in computing or quantitative
analysis. The successful candidate will have in-depth knowledge of
quantitative methods of data collection, extraction, analysis and use.
Familiarity with data analysis applications such as SPSS and
ArcGIS/ArcView is also required. S(he) must also be familiar with
metadata schemes, eg. DDI, as well as with platforms and methods for
creating and maintaining web resources and services. The incumbent must
possess excellent communication skills.

PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS:

A higher level degree (Masters level or greater) with the same
concentration is preferred. Previous supervisory or management
experience in data centre or services setting will be an asset.

In pursuit of the University of Windsor's Employment Equity Plan,
members from the designated groups (Women, Aboriginal Peoples, Visible
Minorities, and Persons with Disabilities) are encouraged to apply. In
accordance with Canadian Immigration Requirements, all qualified
candidates are encouraged to apply, however, Canadian citizens and
permanent residents will be given priority.

We thank all applicants in advance for their interest in the University
of Windsor, however, only those under consideration will be contacted.
Applications submitted through employment agencies will not be
considered.
