+++
nid = "1546"
jid = "00002"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1546"
title = "Tenure-track position: Data Librarian"
employer = "Leddy Library, University of Windsor"
employerurl = "http://www.uwindsor.ca/library/leddy"
postdate = "2005-03-22"
archivedate = "2005-12-31"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Windsor's Leddy Library invites applications for a
tenure-track Data Librarian position, commencing July 1, 2005. Rank will
be commensurate with experience. This position is subject to final
budgetary approval. For further details about the Leddy Library, visit
our website at <http://www.uwindsor.ca/library/leddy>.

The Leddy Library is an active partner in teaching and research at the
University. Librarians provide service to the university, service to the
profession and participate in research, scholarship, creative activity
in addition to their assigned responsibilities. We seek an innovative,
dynamic professional to provide proactive support and services to our
user communities. The successful candidate will provide leadership in
the development of and access to collections and services for digital
data with emphasis on statistical and geospatial microdata. The
incumbent will work closely with faculty, staff and students to identify
data needs and make data resources fully available to users. The
incumbent will possess the initiative, creativity and communication
skills to develop, promote and deliver effective data literacy
instruction programs. The successful candidate will also contribute to
the planning and development of institutional repositories. Reporting to
the Head, Reference Services, the successful candidate will provide
general and specialized reference services and contribute to the overall
planning and management of library services, as well as to
provincial/national consortial activities.
  
An ALA-accredited MLS (or equivalent) is required. Experience or
educational background in the use of data sets is essential. The
successful candidate will be knowledgeable of quantitative methods of
data collection, extraction, analysis and use. A familiarity with
statistical packages such as SPSS is required. The ability to use GIS
application software is an asset. The successful candidate must have
excellent teaching and communication skills. The incumbent must also be
familiar with metadata schemes, e.g. DDI, and possess demonstrated skill
in creating and maintaining web resources and services.
