+++
nid = "1551"
jid = "00007"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1551"
title = "Statistical Consultant"
employer = "Harvard-MIT Data Center"
employerurl = "http://www.hmdc.harvard.edu/jsp/index.jsp"
postdate = "2005-05-13"
archivedate = "2005-12-31"
draft = "false"
+++
Under the direction of the Manager of Public Services for HMDC, this
individual will lead the Harvard-MIT Data Center's quantitative social
sciences support for the broad user community. Working closely with the
Numeric Data Services reference program, this person will provide direct
faculty and student consultation for statistical questions in person and
via email, create online and printed materials for statistical support,
identify instructional and research software for public labs, and
develop and teach mini-courses on quantitative methods and software for
the various disciplines. This individual will also manage the daily
operation of the CGIS training facility, including coordinating usage
and equipment maintenance. Supervise student lab assistants and
additional duties as required.
  
Masters in statistics or related field, 2 to 4years related experience.
Strong academic background in quantitative social sciences. Strong
computer skills. Excellent interpersonal and communications skills, both
oral and written. Ability to work with a variety of users at different
skill levels. Substantial experience with statistical software.
Including Stata, SPSS, SAS, and S-Plus/R. Experience in developing and
teaching classes in statistics. Experience in tutorial development, with
web emphasis preferred. Familiarity with quantitative data research and
survey research methodologies.
