+++
nid = "1554"
jid = "00009"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1554"
title = "Data Librarian"
employer = "Leddy Library, University of Windsor"
employerurl = "http://www.uwindsor.ca/library/leddy"
postdate = "2005-10-31"
archivedate = "2005-12-31"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Windsor's Leddy Library invites applications for a
tenure-track Data Librarian position, commencing January 1, 2006. Rank
will be commensurate with experience. This position is subject to final
budgetary approval. For further details about the Leddy Library, visit
our website at <http://www.uwindsor.ca/library/leddy>. The Leddy Library
provides leadership to the University of Windsor community in data
services and data support. This includes the development of an Academic
Data Centre to meet daily, ongoing data research, teaching and learning
needs. The Centre will play a key role in supporting ongoing research of
faculty, staff and students, in facilitating instruction in quantitative
and qualitative research methods, with the aim of raising
data/statistical literacy levels on campus, and in providing leadership
to the campus community with respect to archiving locally produced data
to ensure its future accessibility. The Data Librarian will work in
close collaboration with the Data Centre Manager (a non-librarian
position responsible for the daily management of the Centre), with
library staff, and with faculty and staff from the campus community to
ensure the development of a comprehensive programme of data support,
data services and data management. Reporting to the Head, Reference
Services, the Data Librarian will be responsible for developing data
collections relevant to the campus community. S/he will provide
leadership in the development of data literacy programmes at the
University of Windsor. This includes working with faculty to integrate
data literacy into the curricula of relevant courses of study and
developing data subsets and other teaching tools to facilitate the use
of data for instructional purposes. The incumbent will also provide
leadership in implementing programmes for long-term data storage for
local research data, through the implementation of appropriate software
platforms, the promotion of good data collection and storage habits
across campus, the preparation of local databases for long-term
archiving, and, the oversight of metadata standards development and
metadata production.
  
An ALA-accredited MLS (or equivalent) is required. Significant
experience, or educational background, in the use of data sets is
essential. The successful candidate will have in-depth knowledge of
quantitative methods of data collection, extraction, analysis and use.
S/he must have excellent teaching and communication skills. Significant
knowledge of, or experience in, the use of metadata schemes such as DDI
as well as with platforms and methods for creating and maintaining web
resources and services would be preferred.
