+++
nid = "1549"
jid = "00006"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1549"
title = "Statistical Support Specialist"
employer = "Yale University"
employerurl = "http://www.yale.edu/"
postdate = "2005-05-06"
archivedate = "2005-12-31"
draft = "false"
+++
Under the direction of the Manager of the Social Science Statistical
Laboratory (StatLab), and with latitude for the exercise of independent
judgment, provide statistical and data management consulting, user
support, and training in relative applications and tools to faculty and
students. Maintain and develop web based content providing extensive
user support documentation. Provide expertise and technical support for
data intensive research projects and statistical and/or geospatial data
applications.

Essential Duties of Position:

-   Provide statistical consultation and technical support to users of
    the StatLab teaching and research facilities and resources.
-   Assist users of statistical and/or geospatial data in managing,
    accessing, analyzing, and producing results for teaching and
    research projects.
-   Develop online documentation and training materials; help manage
    workshops and consulting services for faculty, students and StatLab
    consultants.
-   Provide expertise, guidance and feedback to student consultants.
-   Oversee StatLab operations in the absence of the StatLab Manager.
-   Working with AM&T Research Services and working as part of a
    research support team, consult with and provide guidance and
    services to faculty who have specialized discipline related
    computing needs requiring statistical, geospatial, and database
    management skills.
  
Education and Training:

-   Bachelor's degree in the social sciences, information science, or
    related fields and two years experience in an academic teaching,
    research, or user services environment, or an equivalent combination
    of education and experience.
-   Experience with statistical and/or geospatial analysis, methodology
    and related software.
-   Strong understanding of technical applications in statistical
    research and teaching.
-   Preferred: Master's degree; teaching applications in the social
    sciences; experience providing consulting services and/or teaching
    applications in the social sciences; experience writing content for
    websites relating to statistical software, data resources,
    geospatial and/or social science research or teaching.

Skills and Abilities:

-   Knowledge of and experience with statistical analysis software.
    Enthusiasm for and ability to develop and produce help documentation
    for social science research and instruction.
-   Service-minded, self-motivated and able to work in a team
    environment with faculty, ITS/AM&T professional staff and students.
-   Ability to manage and prioritize multiple projects simultaneously.
-   Knowledge of databases (i.e. Access, MySQL, Postgres) and data
    management.
-   Referred: Experience with geographical information systems;
    experience with HTML/XML; technical skills with UNIX and Microsoft
    Windows within a networked distributed computing environment;
    knowledge of Perl, PHP, JavaScript or Java programming.
