+++
nid = "1545"
jid = "00001"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1545"
title = "Data Services Librarian"
employer = "Northwestern University"
employerurl = "http://www.library.northwestern.edu/govpub"
postdate = "2005-01-11"
archivedate = "2005-12-31"
draft = "false"
+++
RESPONSIBILITIES: Reporting to the Head, Government Publications & Maps
Department, the Social Science Data Services Librarian is responsible
for collection management and services of the Social Science Data
Services (SSDS) unit of the department. Serves as Northwestern
University's Official Representative to the ICPSR. Evaluates and
selects commercial data products not available through membership to
ICPSR or Roper. Works with appropriate faculty to plan and implement
user education and outreach programs. Responsible for group instruction
to social science classes that use raw data files. Consults individually
with faculty and students to assist in identifying appropriate data
resources for their research and teaching. Plans and implements staff
training programs related to SSDS. Actively participates in the
planning, decision-making, and continuing innovation of the
department's services and programs. Shares responsibility for providing
quality reference service at the department's reference desk including
evening and weekend hours. Represents the library at professional
meetings related to data services. Other duties as assigned.
  
REQUIRED QUALIFICATIONS: MLS from an ALA-accredited institution or
equivalent combination of education and relevant experience. Experience
with numeric data resources and familiarity with current issues,
technologies, and software applications related to such resources.
Ability to identify, access, and use data resources. Experience
organizing data files and working with users to provide data services
support. Must be a highly motivated self-starter with excellent
communication skills who can work cooperatively and effectively with all
levels of staff and users in an ever-changing environment. Demonstrated
commitment to providing quality reference service. Willingness to
participate in professional activities related to data services. Two or
more years of relevant experience.

PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS: Experience with government statistical and
numeric data resources. Undergraduate and/or graduate degree in the
social sciences.
