+++
nid = "1567"
jid = "00023"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1567"
title = "Documents/Data Services Librarian"
employer = "UNC-Greensboro Libraries"
employerurl = "http://library.uncg.edu/"
postdate = "2006-10-24"
archivedate = "2006-12-08"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of North Carolina at Greensboro Libraries seek an
energetic and innovative information specialist or reference librarian
who will serve the University in the area of government information and
data resources. As a selective Federal Depository Library, UNCG is
moving its depository collections and services from print to electronic
formats. Faculty and students in business and the social sciences are
increasingly using data sets in their research. We seek an individual
who is familiar with statistical and analytical software packages, has
experience with government resources, and has a strong commitment to
public service. The position is a twelve-month, non-tenure or
tenure-track, faculty position defined by the educational qualifications
of the chosen candidate. Demonstrated professional achievement, service,
and scholarly/creative activity are required for reappointment and
tenure. This position will report to the Head of Reference and
Instructional Services.

-   Plan, coordinate and develop a data resource and service center
    within the Reference and Instructional Services Department
-   Actively market and provide specialized reference and consultation
    for data and government services to faculty, students and the
    community at large.
-   Develop an active instructional program in data and government
    resources
-   Create and maintain web resources that provide access to data and
    government sources
-   Provide guidance in the continuing transition of government
    information to the online environment
-   Provide oversight for the Libraries? Federal Depository Library
    Program (FDLP) and North Carolina state collections
-   Serve as the University?s official representative to the
    Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research
    (ICPSR)
-   Actively participate in the planning, decision-making, and
    continuing innovation of the department?s services and programs
-   Supervise support staff
-   Serve as liaison to academic departments
-   Provide general reference service
-   Develop connections with University GIS users

Salary is competitive and commensurate with qualifications and
experience. Standard benefits include state or optional (including
TIAA/CREF) retirement plans, state health plan, and 24 vacation days per
year.
  
-   Master's degree in library science from an ALA-accredited program
    (required for a tenure-track position) or a Master's degree in a
    social science field
-   Knowledge of federal governmental structures, organization, and
    information
-   Experience with census data and numeric data resources such as
    ICPSR, as well as data analysis software applications such as SAS
    and SPSS
-   Excellent verbal and written communication skills
-   Ability to work collaboratively

Preferred Qualifications:

-   Two or more years of experience working with federal and state
    government information and materials
-   Academic library experience with reference and library instruction
-   Demonstrated experience creating and maintaining web pages
-   Demonstrated experience with outreach or collaborative activities
-   Knowledge of the FDLP
