+++
nid = "1559"
jid = "00015"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1559"
title = "Social Sciences Data Librarian"
employer = "Rutgers University Libraries"
employerurl = "http://www.libraries.rutgers.edu/"
postdate = "2006-04-13"
archivedate = "2006-06-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The Social Sciences Data Librarian is the primary resource person for
the planning and delivery of numeric data services for governmental and
non-governmental sources. Responsible for the development of archival
and user support services for numeric data in various electronic
formats. Collaborates with subject specialists and government resources
librarians in the acquisition of data, and serves as a data liaison to
appropriate academic departments. Plans, coordinates, and promotes data
services in the Humanities and Social Sciences Data Center, an open
laboratory in the Libraries Scholarly Communication Center located in
the Alexander Library on the New Brunswick/Piscataway Campus.
Responsible for continued development of Geographic Information Systems
(GIS) services including consultation and data acquisition to support
teaching and research. Develops digital initiatives as appropriate to
augment and enhance data services. Participates in general and
specialized reference services and relevant library instructional
services, including nights and weekends. Represents the Libraries at
professional data meetings and conferences. Serves as the official
representative from Rutgers University to the Inter-University
Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR). This is a
tenure-track appointment. The incumbent is expected to pursue scholarly
research and publication, and actively participate in professional
organizations. The Social Sciences Data Librarian reports to the newly
created position of Associate University Librarian for Instruction and
Research Services.
  
ALA-accredited Master's degree required. Must be a highly motivated
individual with excellent communication skills. Experience in an
academic or corporate library and experience with electronic government
or social sciences data using statistical packages such as SPSS or SAS
required. Working knowledge of metadata standards for data such as DDI,
Geographic Information Systems software packages such as ArcView and
ArcIMS, CD-ROM networks, and operating systems such as Windows and
Unix/Linux preferred. An advanced degree in a relevant field is highly
desirable. A record of scholarly achievement and involvement in
professional associations is preferred.
