+++
nid = "1574"
jid = "00030"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1574"
title = "Statistical Consultant / Training Manager"
employer = "Harvard-MIT Data Center"
employerurl = "http://www.hmdc.harvard.edu/"
postdate = "2006-11-29"
archivedate = "2007-01-29"
draft = "false"
+++
Under the direction of the Manager of Public Services for HMDC, this
individual will lead the Harvard-MIT Data Center's quantitative social
sciences support for the broad user community. Working closely with the
Numeric Data Services reference program, this person will provide direct
faculty and student consultation for statistical questions in person and
via email, create online and printed materials for statistical support,
identify instructional and research software for public labs, and
develop and teach mini-courses on quantitative methods and software for
the various disciplines. This individual will also manage the daily
operation of the CGIS training facility, including coordinating usage.
Supervise HMDC statistical fellows and additional duties as required.
  
Masters in statistics or related field, 2 to 4 years related
experience.Strong academic background in quantitative social sciences.
Strong computer skills. Excellent interpersonal and communications
skills, both oral and written. Ability to work with a variety of users
at different skill levels. Substantial experience with statistical
software, including R, Stata, SAS, and SPSS. Experience in developing
and teaching classes in statistics. Experience in tutorial development,
with web emphasis preferred. Familiarity with quantitative data research
and survey research methodologies.
