+++
nid = "1566"
jid = "00017"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1566"
title = "Data Archivist"
employer = "University of Chicago"
employerurl = "http://www.uchicago.edu/"
postdate = "2006-08-08"
archivedate = "2006-10-30"
draft = "false"
+++
Support researchers in retrieving and analyzing data from social
sciences data archives, including the University of Chicago archives,
the University of Michigan ICPSR data warehouse, Roper Center for Public
Opinion Research and AthensDA. Receive data requests from faculty and
students, research data archives and determine which data fulfills the
criteria of the requestor. Write or assist in writing text for scholarly
documents including published works. Instruct researchers and members of
research teams in archival techniques. Clean, format, and document
research data for entry into the social sciences data archive. Consult
with researchers on methodologies for data collection and retention as
well as their associated costs as they pertain to future research
projects design. Supervise research staff. Position reports to the
Manager, Data Archive, Social Sciences Computing Services (SSCS).
  
Master's degree in a social sciences concentration OR a Bachelor's
degree and a minimum of two years of relevant experience required; Ph.D.
in a social sciences concentration preferred; a minimum of two years of
experience in data archival and retrieval preferred; a minimum of one
year of experience collaborating with faculty members and other
researchers to achieve their data archival needs preferred; experience
working as a member of a research team preferred; experience in common
statistics packages (SAS, STATA, SPlus, Matlab and SPSS) preferred;
knowledge of where to find and how to obtain the most commonly used
datasets for social scientists (ICPSR, Roper, AthensDA) preferred;
excellent verbal and written communication skills required; excellent
interpersonal skills required; attention to detail required; ability to
manage time efficiently required; ability to handle multiple, concurrent
projects required; excellent quantitative and analytical skills
required.
