+++
nid = "1571"
jid = "00027"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1571"
title = "Data Repository Architect"
employer = "North Carolina State University Libraries"
employerurl = "http://www.lib.ncsu.edu/"
postdate = "2006-11-17"
archivedate = "2007-01-17"
draft = "false"
+++
The NCSU Libraries invites applications and nominations for the position
of Data Repository Architect. The NCSU Libraries, a member of the
Digital Library Federation, is engaged in a number of data repository
and data management initiatives at a regional and national level,
including collaboration with the Library of Congress under the National
Digital Information Infrastructure & Preservation Program (NDIIPP) and
an emerging local collaboration under the auspices of the Triangle
Research Library Network (TRLN). The incumbent will join the Digital
Library Initiatives Department (8 librarians and 3 technical and support
staff), working in a highly collaborative environment with library
colleagues and external partners on digital repository development,
digital preservation, metadata architecture, digital collections
management, and digital services development. A close relationship with
the Libraries' Information Technology Department ensures availability of
a robust server, storage, application hosting, and networking
infrastructure.

Responsibilities

Explores, adapts, and implements emerging digital repository and data
repository technologies. Provides leadership for projects that advance
data curation and that promote reuse of scientific data. Develops
procedures and mechanisms for capture and maintenance of metadata. Works
with other library staff to develop metadata strategy and to implement
relevant metadata standards. Contributes to investigations into
cultural, organizational, and technical issues associated with data
sharing in the academic environment. Maintains a high level of knowledge
of other libraries' use of emerging data repository technologies.
Serves on library-wide and regional committees, task forces, and teams.
Represents the Libraries at regional and national meetings, consortia,
and associations. Librarians at NC State are expected to be active
professionally and to contribute to developments in the field. Reports
to the Head, Digital Library Initiatives.

Salary and Benefits

The Libraries offers highly competitive salaries in recognition of
applicable education and experience. Relocation allowance provided.
Librarians have non-tenure track faculty status (without levels of
rank). Benefits include: 24 days vacation, 12 days sick leave; State of
NC comprehensive major medical insurance, and state, TIAA/CREF, or other
retirement options. Additional and optional dental, life, disability,
deferred compensation, and legal plans are offered. Tuition waiver
program for all campuses of The University of North Carolina is
available. More benefits information is available at
<http://www7.acs.ncsu.edu/hr/benefits/>
  
Required: ALA-accredited MLS or equivalent advanced degree. Relevant
professional experience. Evidence of innovation using emerging digital
repository and data management technologies. Demonstrated successful
project management experience. Knowledge of metadata standards,
XML/XSLT, and digital repository technologies. Experience programming in
a scripting language such as Python, PHP, or Perl. Ability to work in an
environment of teamwork and cooperation. Excellent interpersonal skills;
ability to communicate clearly, knowledgeably, and personably, orally
and in writing. Knowledge of research and education in a university
setting. Demonstrated record of ongoing professional development.
Preferred: Familiarity with one or more scientific data domains.
