+++
nid = "1586"
jid = "00044"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1586"
title = "Economic Development Research Specialist"
employer = "University of Arkansas at Little Rock"
employerurl = "http://www.iea.ualr.edu/"
postdate = "2007-08-08"
archivedate = "2007-09-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The College of Business at the University of Arkansas at Little Rock
(UALR) .s Institute for Economic Advancement (IEA) is accepting
applications for an economic development researcher.

IEA is a university applied research and outreach center with a staff of
more than 40 employees and has a successful history of performing
unbiased research for the state/federal agencies and businesses. IEA is
the primary source of research and information to support economic
development in the State of Arkansas. For more information about the
institute visit http://www.iea.ualr.edu/. The appointment will be on a
full-time permanent 12-month basis with a competitive salary and
excellent benefits. The review of applications will continue until the
position is filled. Primary responsibilities include directing the
Institute.s technical assistance activities in support of Arkansas.
community and economic development efforts. Specific technical
assistance projects will depend on the candidate.s expertise, but may
include retail studies, community socio-economic assessments, wage and
salary analyses, applications of geographic information systems,
business retention and expansion analysis, and/or strategic planning
assistance. Position requires frequent interaction with local economic
developers, business leaders, elected officials, and government agency
personnel is expected in order to effectively market and deliver IEA.s
services. Additional responsibilities include participation in
developing grants and contracts and teaching in IEA.s Economic
Development Education Program. Duties may also include assisting the IEA
director with coordinating Federal Economic Development Administration
activities.
  
Qualifications for the position of Economic Development Research
Specialist include a minimum of a Masters Degree, at least 5 years of
experience in applied economic development research/technical
assistance, and experience working with economic development agencies,
localities, and consultants. Though not required, designation as a
Certified Economic Developer (CEcD) is a plus. The successful candidate
will possess demonstrated competence in economic development technical
assistance, experience in team projects, a record of contract and/or
grant generation, the ability to teach in his or her specialty areas,
and strong interpersonal and communications skills.
