+++
nid = "1596"
jid = "00053"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1596"
title = "Data Librarian / Metadata Specialist"
employer = "Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning"
employerurl = "http://www.cmap.illinois.gov/"
postdate = "2007-12-18"
archivedate = "2008-02-28"
draft = "false"
+++
The Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning (CMAP), is seeking to hire
a Data Librarian / Metadata Specialist for the Research and Analysis
Group. CMAP was created recently to integrate planning for land use and
transportation in the counties of Cook, DuPage, Kane, Kendall, Lake,
McHenry, and Will. CMAP and its partners are removing barriers to
cooperation across geographical boundaries and subject areas such as
land use, transportation, natural resources, housing, and economic
development. By understanding how these issues -- and our communities'
futures -- are inter-related, CMAP seeks to change the way planning is
conducted in northeastern Illinois.

Position Description The needs of the Agency often require large amounts
of data from public and private sources; while some data are project ­
specific, many data sets, particularly GIS data, benefit numerous
projects. The accumulation of these data sets in a central repository
has created the need for a data librarian to take charge of the
acquisition, description and dissemination of GIS and related data. The
data librarian's primary roles are:

-   To maintain the Agency's central repository ensuring that all data
    sets added to the data library contain an accurate description of
    the data applying minimally compliant Federal Geographic Data
    Committee's (FGDC) metadata standards;
-   To assist in the creation of metadata for agency-derived data sets,
    and train agency staff in data and metadata literacy;
-   To serve as the primary agent for data acquisition from outside
    agencies, establishing and maintaining user agreements,
    supplementing metadata records, and keeping CMAP technical staff
    apprised of updates;
-   To serve as the first point of contact for external data requests
    from individuals, organizations and other government agencies;
-   To ensure that data entered into the central repository are
    registered with all appropriate CMAP data directories.
  
The successful candidate should have considerable experience working
with both spatial and non-spatial data sets that originate from a
variety of sources (e.g. government, private, not-for-profit) and
possess the skills to create FGDC-compliant metadata for those data
sets. Strong communication and interpersonal skills are essential to all
aspects of this position, as is the ability to take initiative and work
independently. The candidate must have a familiarity with urban planning
concepts relating to land use, transportation, and natural resources. A
solid understanding of databases and data applications is essential; a
basic familiarity with computer programming concepts will be helpful.

Education and Experience
Preferred: a master's degree in library information science with a
strong emphasis on geography, urban planning, or a related discipline. A
minimum of three years' professional experience working with ESRI's
suite of ArcGIS products (ArcMap, ArcCatalog, ArcSDE, ArcIMS) and
familiarity with the Federal Geographic Data Committee's (FGDC) Content
Standards for Digital Geospatial Metadata.
