+++
nid = "1585"
jid = "00045"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1585"
title = "Regional Economic Researcher"
employer = "University of Arkansas at Little Rock"
employerurl = "http://www.iea.ualr.edu/"
postdate = "2007-08-08"
archivedate = "2007-09-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The College of Business at the University of Arkansas at Little Rock
(UALR)'s Institute for Economic Advancement (IEA) is accepting
applications for an assistant/associate research professor of economics
to contribute to the ongoing work performed by the Institute. Research
includes policy analysis, workforce and demographic topics, economic and
fiscal impact analysis.

IEA is a university applied research and outreach center with a staff of
more than 40 employees and has a successful history of performing
unbiased research for the state/federal agencies and businesses. IEA is
the primary source of research and information to support economic
development in the State of Arkansas. For more information about the
institute visit http://www.iea.ualr.edu/. The appointment will be on a
full-time permanent 12-month basis with a competitive salary and
excellent benefits. The review of applications will continue until the
position is filled.
  
Solid knowledge of economic theory and regional economics is required,
while experience with workforce and labor market trends, economic
development practice, and economic input-output modeling is desirable.
Additional responsibilities include leadership in a variety of public
policy initiatives; and applied research in regional economic topics and
development issues. Expertise and experience with oral and written
communication is necessary to present analytical results to general
business and governmental audiences as well as the media. A minimum of a
master degree in economics, statistics, or business is required.
