+++
nid = "1588"
jid = "00042"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1588"
title = "Demographic Researcher/Census State Data Center Manager"
employer = "University of Arkansas at Little Rock"
employerurl = "http://www.iea.ualr.edu/"
postdate = "2007-08-08"
archivedate = "2007-09-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The College of Business at the University of Arkansas at Little Rock
(UALR) .s Institute for Economic Advancement (IEA) is accepting
applications for Demographic Researcher/Census State Data Center
Manager.

Primary responsibilities include conducting demographic, economic and
workforce research by analyzing data from federal, state, and local
sources and interpreting results. Adapt or develop analytical approaches
as needed to provide insight into important trends. Forecast population,
employment, job skills, occupations, incomes, tax revenues, and similar
variables for the state, counties, and sub-county areas as needed.
Deliver presentations on trends to technical experts and the general
public. In addition the person will manage the operations of the Census
State Data Center. Respond to information requests for state and federal
demographic, economic, and geographic data. Interact with federal and
local agencies on research, production, or review of census information.
Person must be able to collaborate effectively with IEA staff and others
in the design and implementation of large projects.

IEA is a university applied research and outreach center with a staff of
more than 40 employees and has a successful history of performing
unbiased research for the state/federal agencies and businesses. IEA is
the primary source of research and information to support economic
development in the State of Arkansas. For more information about the
institute visit http://www.iea.ualr.edu/. The appointment will be on a
full-time permanent 12-month basis with a competitive salary and
excellent benefits. The review of applications will continue until the
position is filled.
  
Qualifications for the position include a Master.s degree in demography,
statistics, economics, or urban/regional planning. Two years experience
in a research setting preferred. A qualified person with a Bachelor.s
degree in demography/population studies, statistics, economics, or
urban/regional planning; and at least four years of professional
experience conducting studies, which includes demographic
considerations, analyzing data, interpreting results, and producing
estimates or projections will be considered. A solid knowledge of
statistical principles, theories, concepts, methods, methodology, and
application of computer programs for statistical analysis is expected.
Knowledge of SAS and SPSS, Excel; databases and SQL Server is desirable.
Some knowledge of a range of social, economic, and demographic theories
must be demonstrated, and expertise in governmental data sources.
