+++
nid = "1591"
jid = "00049"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1591"
title = "Assistant Economics, Finance and Data Librarian"
employer = "Princeton University Library"
employerurl = "http://libweb.princeton.edu"
postdate = "2007-09-17"
archivedate = "2007-10-30"
draft = "false"
+++
Description: We seek an energetic and innovative librarian to join the
Research and Instructional Services Department's Social Science
Reference Center (SSRC) team. The Center has a staff of 10 professional
librarian, technical and administrative staff; and 4.5 support staff.
The Center supports reference, research, and statistical and data
analysis in economics, finance, financial engineering, industrial
relations, law, politics, and sociology. In addition, the Center houses
a data and statistical services unit and four document depository
collections -- United States, United Nations, New Jersey, and the
European Union. All of the Center's professional staff actively engage
in library instruction and outreach and provide individual reference
assistance in effective use of print, electronic, and data sources. This
librarian will be a member of the Center's Pliny Fisk Library of
Economics and Finance, one of the nation's premier economics and
finance collections with holdings that include WRDS databases,
Datastream, Bloomberg, Thomson One Banker, Global Financial Data, Global
Insight, ICPSR, Sociometrics, Roper, and thousands of other data
sources. Under the direction of the Economics, Finance and Data Services
Librarian, this librarian will support collection development,
quantitative research, and library research instruction in economics,
finance, and a wide range of social science data. Will assist Princeton
students, faculty, staff, and visiting scholars in identifying the
Library's holdings and then providing intensive, individualized
assistance in a fast-paced setting. Will solve complex reference
problems or refer, as appropriate, to other units and specialists within
the Library system, and will assist in the organizing of data resources.
Weekend reference is shared on a rotational basis among librarians at a
centralized service desk.
Compensation and Benefits: Compensation will be competitive and
commensurate with experience and accomplishments. Twenty-four (24)
vacation days a year, plus eleven (11) paid holidays. Annuity program
(TIAA/CREF), group life insurance, health coverage insurance, disability
insurance, and other benefits are available.
  
Required: An ALA accredited Master's degree in library science or
equivalent combination of education and professional experience, and a
subject background in the social sciences. Some reference experience in
an academic or research library, with strong preference given to
candidates with an educational background or work experience in an
economic/ business/ data reference setting.
Preferred: demonstrated facility searching economic, financial, and
social science bibliographic and data sources; a strong familiarity with
research strategies in economics, finance, and data; familiarity with
standard statistical packages, current library digital projects, and
trends in scholarly communication. Well honed skill sets in Web site
creation.
