+++
nid = "1581"
jid = "00036"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1581"
title = "Social Science Data Librarian"
employer = "University of Southern California"
employerurl = "http://www.usc.edu/"
postdate = "2007-05-25"
archivedate = "2007-06-18"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Southern California (USC) is seeking an energetic,
creative, and committed librarian to select, acquire, manage, and
deliver statistical data in the social sciences. This position will suit
a recent MLS graduate or early career professional. Reporting to the
Assistant Social Sciences Team Leader, the incumbent will receive
training and mentorship from senior social sciences librarians, from
other members of the library faculty, and from staff with technology or
administrative assignments. The successful candidate will be encouraged
to participate in professional development activities and professional
associations, or sections of associations, devoted to data
librarianship. Working closely with the assistant team leader and other
librarians, the data librarian will engage in a full range of reference,
instruction, collection development and management, and outreach
activities relating to social sciences data services. After training,
the successful candidate will assume a leadership role in the libraries
and at the university for social sciences data collections. The data
librarian will work closely with the Government Documents Librarian to
help develop a complementary suite of collections and services for USC's
faculty, staff, and students. This position will help build and provide
access to social sciences statistical data collections and government
data sets, with special emphasis on the U.S. Bureau of the Census. The
data librarian also will serve as the libraries' liaison to USC's
Geographical Information Systems (GIS) Research Laboratory, based in the
Department of Geography.

Reporting to the Assistant Social Sciences Team Leader, the Social
Sciences Data Librarian will work closely with other subject librarians,
with coordinators for outreach, collection development, reference, and
instruction, with the Chair of the UPIA Interdisciplinary Center, and
with technical staff to build statistical data collections, facilitate
access to data collections outside USC, and provide additional services
to data users.

After training, the data librarian will have primary responsibility for
identifying, locating, selecting, acquiring, and providing access to
both quantitative and qualitative (text analysis) data sets. He or she
will also assume responsibility for collaborating closely with USC's
teaching faculty and graduate students to collect, store, preserve,
manage, and make widely accessible data sets created or otherwise owned
by faculty and students. The librarian will assist users of electronic
numeric data with reading and transferring files, and with importing
data into statistical software packages. The successful candidate also
will evaluate the use of statistical data collections and related
electronic resources to support collection development and management
decisions. The librarian will work closely with metadata specialists,
other technical services librarians and staff, computer services
consultants, and public services personnel to ensure that users are able
to access sources of statistical data easily and reliably.

The data librarian will provide in depth reference, consultation, and
instructional services and will create and maintain research-oriented
web pages. He or she also will facilitate web-based access to data
resources in a new research commons environment under development within
the UPIA Interdisciplinary Center. The successful candidate will be
responsible for USC's active participation in the Inter Consortium for
Political and Social Research (ICPSR), and for developing relations with
the U. S. Bureau of the Census. The librarian also might be asked to
assist with supervising a staff member or student assistants assigned to
support data services.

The data librarian will be expected to become an active participant
within the Social Sciences Team. Besides representing the interests of
statistical data users on the team, the successful candidate will work
collaboratively with other librarians to establish, prioritize, and
pursue ambitious goals and projects in the social sciences. The data
librarian also will participate in general in-person and virtual
reference and instructional services within the UPIA Center and in other
USC libraries with collections in the social sciences. For more
information on the Social Sciences Team, see:
http://www.usc.edu/isd/libraries/teams/social_sciences/

BENEFITS The position is full-time on a 12-month contract. Benefits
include a choice of university sponsored retirement programs, 22 paid
vacation days per year, a choice of medical and dental plans, and
tuition assistance.
  
Required: BS in a social science discipline and MLS from an
ALA-accredited program. Applicants about to graduate with an MLS in the
spring or summer of 2007 will be given full consideration. The position
requires excellent interpersonal, oral and written communication skills;
a strong customer-service orientation; and knowledge of trends in social
sciences data, digital technology, and electronic resources.

Preferred: Statistics coursework; experience with importing statistical
data into software packages such as SAS, SPSS, and STATA; academic or
research library internship or student worker experience; subject
masters degree in one of the social sciences; ability to work in a
collegial, team-based, consultative environment; experience providing
reference, instruction, collection development and management in an
academic or research library. The ideal candidate should have an ability
to interact effectively with students, faculty and staff from diverse
cultural backgrounds.
