+++
nid = "1587"
jid = "00043"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1587"
title = "Executive Director, \nInstitute for Economic Advancement"
employer = "University of Arkansas at Little Rock"
employerurl = "http://www.iea.ualr.edu/"
postdate = "2007-08-08"
archivedate = "2007-09-30"
draft = "false"
+++
With approximately 40 full time, professional staff, the Institute for
Economic Advancement (IEA) is the applied, customer-oriented research
and extension arm of the College of Business at the University of
Arkansas at Little Rock. IEA's mission is to support statewide economic
advancement through research, information, technical assistance,
service, education, and training. IEA serves businesses, all levels of
government, educational institutions, economic development organizations
and chambers of commerce, nonprofit agencies, labor organizations, and
the public, and it acts as the state.s official representative for
several programs. IEA is a model center for economic advancement in the
country. For more information about the institute visit
http://www.iea.ualr.edu/.

The primary responsibility for the Executive Director is to set the
research direction of the institute, directing and managing professional
staff and ensuring continued quality and timely deliverables to clients.
A critical focus of the position is building relationships with state
and federal agencies, businesses, and organizations that serve client
groups; as well as within the Institute, the College of Business, and
the University community. This person is responsible for budgets and
financial viability of organization which includes seeking grants and
contracts in support of the mission of IEA. In addition, this person
directs the Federal Economic Development Administration.s University
Center at IEA.
  
The Executive Director must be able to work in a team environment with a
multi-functional professional staff that serves a broad and diverse
client base. Experience with EDA or other development agencies, running
an economic development center, and experience with or knowledge of
other IEA client groups is preferred. A minimum of a Masters degree is
required, doctorate preferred. The successful candidate should also
possess ability to operate in a University environment, knowledge of
applied research, and excellent communications and public relations
skills.
