+++
nid = "1579"
jid = "00035"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1579"
title = "Government Information and Data Services Librarian"
employer = "Western Illinois University Libraries"
employerurl = "http://www.wiu.edu/"
postdate = "2007-05-23"
archivedate = "2007-08-16"
draft = "false"
+++
Western Illinois University Libraries seeks an innovative and
user-oriented Government Information and Data Services Librarian to
become part of their exciting transformation into a digital information
commons. The successful candidate will plan, develop, and deliver
government information and spatial and numeric data services across the
university.

RESPONSIBILITIES: The Government Information and Data Services Librarian
is responsible for the continued development of the Library GIS/map
services. Working closely with library colleagues the Government
Information and Data Services Librarian participates in the selection,
organization, and delivery of data collections. Other responsibilities
include: serves as liaison to academic departments; participates in
reference and instruction; works collaboratively with the Government
Documents Librarian to insure access to government information;
participates in government information outreach activities to the
University and surrounding communities; contributes in departmental and
library planning; serves on library-wide and University committees; and
completes research and service activities to achieve tenure and
promotion.

RANK & SALARY: 12 month, tenure-track position, with a minimum annual
salary of $62,338 as an assistant professor. Western Illinois
University offers a competitive benefits package that includes domestic
partner benefits. For full benefit information visit
http://www.wiu.edu/hr/benefits.shtml WIU Faculty are members of an
AFT-affiliated collective bargaining campus.
  
REQUIRED: ALA-accredited master's degree. A sixth-year specialist
degree in librarianship or an advanced / professional degree must be
completed within one year of initial appointment. Experience with using
U.S. government information resources. Experience using GIS or
demonstrated interest in learning GIS (GIS educational opportunities
will be available through WIU's Geography Department classes and
commercial vendor workshops). Reference experience. Excellent oral and
written communication skills.

PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS: Map library experience. Federal Depository
Library Program experience. Experience evaluating online government
information for inclusion in library Web pages. Experience providing
bibliographic instruction in an academic library. Familiarity with
using: SPSS or other data analysis software applications; international
government organization resources; and legal reference resources.
