+++
nid = "1577"
jid = "00033"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1577"
title = "Statistical Support Specialist (C&IS Support\nSpecialist 2)"
employer = "Yale University"
employerurl = "http://www.yale.edu/"
postdate = "2007-04-18"
archivedate = "2007-05-30"
draft = "false"
+++
Provide faculty and students with statistical consulting, user support
and training with relevant applications and tools. Manage and prioritize
multiple projects simultaneously, which will involve providing expertise
and support for research design, data management and applications with
large statistical and/or geospatial data. This position will help design
and implement long- term Social Science quantitative initiatives for the
university. Duties include providing statistical and technical support
to users of the StatLab teaching and research facilities; developing
documentation and training materials relevant to statistics and data
management at Yale; managing workshops and consulting services for
faculty, students and StatLab consultants; providing statistical
expertise, guidance to student consultants.
  
Successful candidate will possess a minimum of a Bachelor's degree in
Social Sciences, Information Science or related fields and four years
experience in an academic teaching, research, or user services
environment, or an equivalent combination of education and experience.
Experience with advanced statistics methodology and related software is
essential, along with a firm understanding of technical applications in
statistical research and instruction. An ABD or Master's degree is
strongly preferred along with experience in statistical consulting
and/or quantitative teaching in a Social Science field; knowledge of and
experience with GIS, databases and data management; experience managing
websites relating to statistics, data resources, geospatial and/or
social science computing. Should have some familiarity with HTML/XML,
UNIX, SAS, Stata, SPSS, R, HLM, Access. Preferred: Perl, PHP, network
protocols, and/or Java programming.
