+++
nid = "1601"
jid = "00052"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1601"
title = "Data Library Manager"
employer = "London School of Economics and Political Science"
employerurl = ""
postdate = "2007-12-04"
archivedate = "2007-12-18"
draft = "false"
+++
The Library is at the heart of LSE, one of the world's greatest social
science universities, and serves a vibrant community of students and
staff in the centre of London. The Library has a high reputation both
nationally and internationally for its extensive print collections, its
involvement in innovative projects and its high quality services. An
exciting opportunity has arisen to manage and develop data services for
the LSE research and teaching community, in liaison with colleagues in
the Information Services Division which offers a wide range of services.

In this post you will be responsible for managing the Data Library's
collection of electronic datasets as well as providing site support for
usage of national data centres. You will provide a data advisory service
consisting of training programmes and individual dataset surgeries and
will manage the datasets budget. You will also be involved in research
and development work on the use of digital repositories for storage and
sharing of datasets.
  
You will be educated to at least degree level or equivalent with a high
level of numeracy and a demonstrated ability to handle numerical
datasets. You be an excellent communicator with a proven ability to
relate to a wide range of users. You will be able to work under pressure
and on your own initiative as well as being an effective teamworker.
Experience in the use of electronic information and in the handling of
datasets in a variety of application packages is essential.

We offer a final salary pension scheme, generous annual leave and
excellent development and training opportunities.
