+++
nid = "1625"
jid = "00081"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1625"
title = "Assistant/Associate\nUniversity Librarian for Outreach and Acade"
employer = "University of California, Santa Barbara"
employerurl = "http://www.library.ucsb.edu/"
postdate = "2008-12-15"
archivedate = "2009-01-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of California, Santa Barbara, one of ten campuses of the
University of California System, invites applications and nominations
for an *Assistant/Associate University Librarian for Outreach and
Academic Services*. The successful candidate must be innovative,
creative, energetic, and self motivated. Reporting to the University
Librarian, the AUL provides administrative and programmatic leadership
in shaping and guiding the design, delivery, and assessment of library
services offered to students and faculty. The AUL works with the
University Librarian and other colleagues to reinforce the critical
importance of the library through a comprehensive marketing and advocacy
program. The AUL must possess a clear understanding of the application
of emerging technologies to advance the library's ongoing role in
shaping the University's teaching, learning, and research mission.

RESPONSIBILITIES: The AUL for Outreach and Academic Services will:

-   Provide vision and leadership for an array of outreach initiatives;
    direct the work of a team of librarians delivering services through
    social networking tools, immersive environments, Web 2.0
    applications, and other emerging technologies.
-   Coordinate comprehensive marketing and advocacy program; work with
    Department Heads to find new ways to integrate the library on campus
    and in the classroom; partner with library units on communications
    and promotional strategies; develop and manage the library brand.
-   Coordinate assessment efforts, including the use of surveys, focus
    groups, interviews, LibQUAL+, and other tools.
-   Provider leadership for an ongoing, iterative, and user-centered
    process of program development and facilities management, which
    embraces planning models open to involvement by faculty and students
    across campus.
-   Provide leadership in the renovation of existing library space and
    any future building projects; coordinate multipurpose user spaces;
    curate and capture cultural, artistic, and academic displays,
    events, and scholarly input.
-   Build campus partnerships to form alliances with campus units and
    student organizations, including oversight of the Library Student
    Advisory Council.
-   Develop and maintain the library website, working with the Library
    Web Programmer and the Library Website Design team; oversee digital
    media projects.
-   Design and lead the development of instructional technology
    initiatives such as web tutorials, online subject guides, virtual
    tours, applications for course management systems and other tools in
    the support of the curriculum.
-   Incorporate empathic design, human factors, and usability into the
    organizational culture.
  
Required - ALA accredited MLS, minimum 7 years of increasing
responsibility in an academic library. Experience with quantitative and
qualitative metrics. Experience with web design and development.
Supervisory experience. Team leading experience. Knowledge of and
experience with instructional technology and emerging social web
technologies. Ability to functional in and promote a collaborative
working environment while also providing effective leadership. Solid
record of working with all levels of library personnel, as well as
students and faculty. Excellent analytical, interpersonal, oral and
written communication skills. Demonstrated knowledge of trends in
digital libraries, collaborative technologies, learning spaces, and
scholarly communication.

Preferred - Applied knowledge of user experience design philosophy.
Strong record of professional involvement, scholarly publication and
presentations. Familiarity with applied ethnographic research design.
Experience with photo and video editing. Proven evidence of creativity
or creative solutions. Experience with strategic planning. Experience
with campus wide projects or planning.
