+++
nid = "1622"
jid = "00079"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1622"
title = "Data Service Librarian"
employer = "New York University Libraries"
employerurl = "http://library.nyu.edu/"
postdate = "2008-10-30"
archivedate = "2008-11-30"
draft = "false"
+++
New York University is seeking an energetic, creative, and knowledgeable
librarian to select, acquire, manage, and deliver numeric and geospatial
data collections to support campus research and scholarship. The
incumbent in this new position will work closely with NYU librarians,
faculty technology specialists, and research computing staff to develop
a new Data Service Studio - combining library and statistical computing
services in the Bobst Library. The librarian will build numeric and
spatial data collections and facilitate access to additional data
resources across the sciences, engage in outreach to faculty and
students through subject and departmental liaison activities, design and
conduct data literacy instruction, and participate in reference and
consultation activities as a part of the Data Service Studio team.

This position will play an instrumental role in the library's efforts
to optimize resource discovery and delivery by identifying, evaluating,
manipulating, and enhancing metadata for numeric and spatial
collections. Reporting to the Data Service Coordinator, the Data Service
Librarian works to develop appropriate description for managing research
data collections; investigates new sources for metadata; keeps abreast
of new and evolving metadata standards such as the Data Documentation
Initiative (DDI) and Federal Geographic Data Committee (FGDC) standards.

The incumbent will participate in library-wide committees, activities,
and special projects, especially those involving new technologies and
data. The incumbent will develop and maintain awareness of data-centered
initiatives across the sciences, attending professional meetings,
workshops and conferences for training and continuing professional
development.
  
MLS from an ALA accredited institution. Second masters or the equivalent
required for tenure, preference for fields with preparation in
quantitative/spatial analysis. Familiarity with database and cataloging
practices and metadata schemas; experience with XML preferred. Knowledge
of public and proprietary resources for national and international
numeric and geospatial data. The candidate should be professionally
active and have knowledge of trends in data management and description.
Basic familiarity with software for statistical and geospatial analysis
(//e.g//. SAS, SPSS, Stata, R, GIS applications). Additional
requirements are strong written and verbal communication skills,
demonstrated ability to work independently and collaboratively in a
complex organization, and a creative, service-oriented approach to
problem solving.
