+++
nid = "1611"
jid = "00066"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1611"
title = "Application Systems Analyst"
employer = "Columbia University Information Technology group"
employerurl = "http://www.columbia.edu/cuit/"
postdate = "2008-06-25"
archivedate = "2008-08-25"
draft = "false"
+++
Columbia University Information Technology group (CUIT) is looking for a
candidate with Social Science research experience to join its Research,
Teaching and Learning team. The newly expanded Research Computing area
of this group supports the IT component of research computing at the
University.

CUIT works in collaboration with the Columbia University Libraries to
manage the Digital Social Science Center (DSSC) which includes the
Electronic Data Service (EDS). The DSSC runs high-end computer
laboratories staffed with technical and research specialists in the
Social Sciences.

Responsibilities for this position include:

-   Providing assistance to faculty, researchers, and students in
    managing and manipulating social science, geospatial and other
    numerical data for research and teaching
-   Providing expertise and guidance for student consultants
-   Liaising between CUIT and the Libraries to maintain a
    state-of-the-art level of technology at the DSSC and at EDS.
-   Maintaining an expertise in current popular applications that
    support numerical analysis
-   Working with Research Computing team in developing a campus-wide
    research computing strategy including developing scalable services
    across disciplines
-   Working collaboratively with other IT and Library service units

Working under minimal direction of the Senior Director of Research,
Teaching and Learning, the incumbent will be expected to take ownership
of any given assignment and to provide oversight through the task's
life cycle.
  
Applicant MUST meet these minimum qualifications to be considered an
applicant:

-   Bachelors's degree and/or equivalent, and
-   3+ years relevant work experience.

Additional Position-Specific Minimum Qualifications
Applicant MUST meet these minimum qualifications to be considered an
applicant:

-   Experience using large-scale social science data for Social Science
    research, data analysis, and methodology.
-   Research experience with Stata.
-   Excellent written and verbal communication skills for both technical
    and non-technical audiences.

Preferred Qualifications:

-   Strongly Preferred: Master's degree in Social Science.
-   Experience with statistical packages (SAS, SPSS, R)
-   Experience in IT service delivery in a complex higher education
    environment
