+++
nid = "1606"
jid = "00058"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1606"
title = "Social & Behavioral Sciences Information Specialist"
employer = "Purdue University Libraries"
employerurl = "http://www.lib.purdue.edu/"
postdate = "2008-02-05"
archivedate = "2008-01-06"
draft = "false"
+++
Purdue University Libraries seek an energetic and innovative librarian
to join the Humanities, Social Sciences & Education Library and serve as
the liaison to the departments of Sociology and Psychological Sciences.
This position will also have responsibilities for the planning and
delivery of numeric data services from governmental and non-governmental
sources. The College of Liberal Arts and the College Education are
interested in collaborating with the Libraries to enhance the selection
of social science databases, datasets, and information resources used by
researchers. This librarian will be the primary resource person engaged
with academic departments on the acquisition of major data resources in
support of the social sciences. Reports to the Head of the Humanities,
Social Sciences & Education Library.
  
ALA accredited Master's degree in Library Science or equivalent; 1-2
years of academic library experience in social science librarianship or
relevant related experience. Strong service orientation. Experience or
demonstrated interest in developing and managing library collections in
all formats. Interest in teaching in an academic library environment and
in consulting with users on their information needs. Enthusiasm for new
methods of disseminating information; interest in the application of
current and emerging technologies to meet the changing needs of users.
Excellent communication skills and the ability to interact effectively
with faculty, staff and students. Ability to work independently and as a
team member in a dynamic environment and on a variety of simultaneous
projects. Willingness to engage in interdisciplinary research
initiatives.
