+++
nid = "1612"
jid = "00068"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1612"
title = "Data Reference Librarian"
employer = "Harvard College Library"
employerurl = "http://hcl.harvard.edu/"
postdate = "2008-08-20"
archivedate = "2008-09-20"
draft = "false"
+++
The Data Reference Librarian provides reference, teaching and learning
support for Numeric Data Services and the Research Services of Lamont
Library. Service support includes user instruction, staffing the
reference desks at Lamont Library and the Center for Government and
International Studies (CGIS), and responding to online reference
questions. The Data Reference Librarian also participates in the Numeric
Data Services instruction services, both subject-specific and
course-related, to the Harvard University community. Assists patrons
from all disciplines within the Harvard community locating numeric data
in all formats from the data collections of the Harvard College Library,
the Harvard-MIT Data Center, Harvard University and outside sources.
Provides reference service via desk hours at both Lamont Library and
CGIS Lab, phone, email and in-depth consultations for Harvard
undergraduates, graduate students, faculty and staff. Contributes to the
common reference and instruction goals of Lamont Research Services which
is comprised of Numeric Data Services, Government Documents,
Environmental Information Services, and Undergraduate reference.
Monitors and responds to questions in the Dataquest reference queue.
Creates and updates library instructional materials (both print and
online). Develops subject guides to numeric data, develops guides to
specific numeric databases in HOLLIS, on CD-Rom or in other formats.
This is a term position to end August 31, 2009
  
Basic Qualifications:
MLS from an accredited library school preferred. Two years reference
experience in an academic research library, working with numeric data.
Familiarity with statistical software (SPSS, Stata, SAS) and an
understanding of how data files are organized and how to retrieve them
in statistical software such as SPSS, Stata and SAS.

Additional Qualifications:
Strong academic background in quantitative social sciences. An
understanding of data file and codebook organization and the ability to
provide instruction (to both new and experienced users) on the
organization of data files and codebooks. Must be fluent not only in the
changing technical aspects of numeric data files, but with the content
and subject aspect of the data files and the specific vocabulary
employed in the social science data field. Must have knowledge of social
science information resources, a strong commitment to public service,
and an ability to work with a variety of users. Excellent communication,
teaching and presentation skills. Excellent time and project management
skills.
