+++
nid = "1618"
jid = "00071"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1618"
title = "Data and Support Services Officer"
employer = "UK Data Archive"
employerurl = "http://www.data-archive.ac.uk/"
postdate = "2008-09-10"
archivedate = "2008-10-15"
draft = "false"
+++
The person appointed will work within the Data and Support Services team
to prepare potentially sensitive social science data for secondary use
within our new Secure Data Service. The work involves checking the
contents of datasets; adding value to them by creating and enhancing
metadata (including, for example, the labelling of data variables and
compilation of data listings, among other tasks); creating electronic
documentation (Adobe PDF format) from existing electronic files and
paper documentation; and managing files within the secure data server
environment. Candidates should be computer literate, preferably with
both Windows and UNIX operating systems. Experience of using SPSS
software is essential, as well as excellent English language skills.
  
Experience with other statistical/spreadsheet/database software and word
processing/office packages, and familiarity with Citrix-based
client-server systems, is desirable. Candidates should have an organised
and methodical approach to work and be able to work to deadlines, both
within a team environment and under their own initiative. Knowledge of
social science in general, and experience of social science research
data in particular would be beneficial. See below for a link to the
posting with a full job description, person specification and further
information relating to this post.
