+++
nid = "1615"
jid = "00074"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1615"
title = "IT Spec, Centers for Educ Tech"
employer = "Emory University"
employerurl = "http://www.emory.edu/"
postdate = "2008-10-07"
archivedate = "2008-11-10"
draft = "false"
+++
Emory University has an opening for an position providing computing
support for the social sciences. The position is a mix of IT support
(e.g. managing a lab, help with stats software) and research and
teaching support (e.g. providing research-methods consultations for
graduate students).

Supports all technologies and initiatives for a specific Information
Technology Center in the Office of Information Technology (OIT).
Consults with faculty to determine appropriate technology use within
coursework and research. Tests and evaluates emerging technologies for
use across campus. Develops curriculum for faculty technology workshops
and outreach programs. Supports creative and innovative uses of
technology in academic courses, research, and study. Provides
consultation on appropriate technology use, demonstrates best practices,
and recommends assessment tools. Manages daily operations of the Center,
including supervising and training student employees, assisting students
and faculty with various instructional technologies, supporting faculty
and graduate student workshops, coordinating with Emory's General
Library, and other strategic initiatives and programs. Performs related
responsibilities as required.
  
Minimum Qualifications: A bachelor's degree and five years of
experience evaluating, testing and/or recommending instructional
technology or an equivalent combination of education, training and
experience. Experience in an educational environment preferred. Working
knowledge of Ethernet and wireless networks, networked printing, and
imaging solutions preferred.

Preferred Qualifications: The preferred applicant will also have some
computer programming skills; experience scripting Mac OS X and Unix or
Linux; GIS experience; specific experience with Stata, SPSS, and R; and
an advanced degree in a social science discipline.
