+++
nid = "1598"
jid = "00055"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1598"
title = "Associate Director, National Data \nArchive on Child Abuse and N"
employer = "Cornell University College of Human Ecology"
employerurl = "http://www.human.cornell.edu/"
postdate = "2008-01-16"
archivedate = "2008-03-31"
draft = "false"
+++
The Family Life Development Center within the College of Human Ecology
is seeking a Senior Research Associate to serve as the Associate
Director for the National Data Archive on Child Abuse and Neglect
(NDACAN). The Associate Director serves as the project director for a
$2.5 million cooperative agreement with the U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services supporting the National Data Archive on Child Abuse
and Neglect. Primary functions involve overseeing the daily operation of
the Archive and promoting secondary data analysis in the academic
community. The Associate Director is also expected to collaborate with
the Director and others to conduct research utilizing Archive holdings.

Responsibilities include:

-   presenting scholarly work in academic journals and at national
    meetings
-   conducting workshops
-   working with Children's Bureau grantees and other contributors to
    provide guidance and technical assistance
-   assisting with the identification and acquisition of new archive
    holdings
-   managing the Archive's annual Summer Research Institute
-   developing policies and procedures for licensing the use of
    secondary data and preventing disclosure of confidential data
-   developing innovative strategies for networking and training child
    maltreatment researchers.

Further information about the position can be obtained from the Director
of the Archive, John Eckenrode, at 607-255-0467 or jje1@cornell.edu.
  
-   a doctoral degree in psychology, social work, public health,
    sociology, or a closely related field
-   3-5 years of postdoctoral work experience in an academic or research
    setting
-   programming expertise with SPSS and SAS is expected.
-   Ability to work well with staff and Archive users is an absolute
    must.

Familiarity with the fields of child maltreatment and child welfare and
demonstrated experience teaching and supervising others, writing grant
proposals, and managing funded projects are all desired.

Review of applications is currently underway and will continue until the
position is filled.
