+++
nid = "1614"
jid = "00069"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1614"
title = "Director of Humanities and Social Science Services"
employer = "University of Virginia Library"
employerurl = "http://www.lib.virginia.edu"
postdate = "2008-09-09"
archivedate = "2008-10-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Virginia Library seeks an innovative and energetic
leader for the position of Director of Humanities and Social Science
Services. The Director has overall administrative and programmatic
responsibility for innovative support of humanities and social sciences
scholarship and direct responsibility for leadership and management of
public services in Alderman Library.

Environment: The University of Virginia Library
(http://www.lib.virginia.edu) is an international leader in digital
library research and development that enables digital scholarship.
Recognized for innovative customer service and in the strength and
variety of its collections, the Library system consists of twelve
libraries, with independent libraries for health sciences, law, and
business. The libraries support 12,000 undergraduates, 6,000 graduate
students and 1,600 teaching faculty. The University and the Library have
a strong commitment to achieving diversity among faculty and staff. The
Neoclassical buildings of founder Thomas Jefferson's Academical Village
still serve as the center of the University's Grounds (
http://www.virginia.edu/uvatours/slideshow) and as a unique backdrop for
teaching, learning, and research.

Responsibilities: Reporting to the Associate University Librarian for
Public Services and Collections, the Director of Humanities and Social
Science Services will provide leadership, foster communication, and
enable collaboration in raising the profile of library collections and
services for humanities and social science services across the academic
community at the University of Virginia. The Director will participate
in Library-wide initiatives, engage with colleagues nationally, and
provide vision and direction in the development of innovative user
services. As the director of public services in Alderman Library, the
candidate will implement and promote innovative processes, technologies,
and spaces to enhance a high quality public service oriented
environment. The successful candidate will foster an empowering working
environment for public services staff that supports and encourages
career development and continuous learning.
  
Master's degree in library science or a related field. An advanced
degree in a humanities or social science discipline is preferred.
Demonstrated successful leadership and administrative accomplishments in
the innovative and effective use of scholarly information resources and
technologies. Demonstrated ability to promote collaborative and
forward-looking initiatives, services, and programs. Knowledge of
emerging information technologies and digital library initiatives.
Knowledge of research and scholarship in humanities and the social
sciences. Excellent analytical, oral, and written communication skills.
Preferred candidates will also exhibit evidence of significant and
progressively-responsible leadership and experience in managing and
supervising others, demonstrated commitment to service excellence,
ability to work cooperatively and maintain effective, creative, and
flexible working relationships with colleagues, faculty, staff and
students. A record of flexibility, creativity, and commitment to
diversity, mentoring and developing staff is also preferred.
