+++
nid = "1616"
jid = "00073"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1616"
title = "Service Manager, Secure Data Service"
employer = "UK Data Archive"
employerurl = "http://www.data-archive.ac.uk/"
postdate = "2008-10-07"
archivedate = "2008-10-15"
draft = "false"
+++
The UK Data Archive (UKDA) is an internationally-renowned centre of
expertise in social science data acquisition, preservation,
dissemination and promotion and is currently recruiting dedicated
professionals to deploy its new Secure Data Service (SDS).

The postholder will be primarily responsible for planning, overseeing,
and coordinating the work of SDS and line managing its staff in order to
provide access to sensitive data to approved researchers; and liaising
with data creators and sister services nationally and internationally.
S/he will be educated to degree level and have a thorough knowledge of
statistical disclosure control issues and methods. Experience of
secondary analysis of large social science datasets and practical
knowledge of web technologies is essential. Candidates will have a
demonstrable track record of management skills for all aspects of
people, project, and process management.
  
Candidates should have an organised and methodical approach to work and
be able to work to deadlines, both within a team environment and under
their own initiative. Knowledge of social science in general, and
experience of social science research data in particular would be
beneficial. See below for a link to the posting with a full job
description, person specification and further information relating to
this post.
