+++
nid = "1597"
jid = "00054"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1597"
title = "Faculty Technology Specialist - Statistical Research"
employer = "New York University"
employerurl = "http://www.nyu.edu/"
postdate = "2008-01-11"
archivedate = "2008-03-31"
draft = "false"
+++
(ITS) at New York University has an opening for a Faculty Technology
Specialist (Statistical Research) in the ITS Statistical Lab and Data
Services. The lab is a unit within New York University's Faculty
Technology Services. The lab is the university's statistical information
center for research and quantitative analysis providing in-depth
consulting for statistical software, quantitative methods, Social
Science data resources, geospatial resources and analysis, and technical
developments relevant to research computing, including emerging data
curation services. Lab staff will participate in new collaborations with
NYU's division of libraries, including digital library and repository
service development related to scholarly communication and research.

Position Responsibilities

-   Consult with and provide guidance to faculty at all stages of the
    research process on discipline-related needs including statistics,
    geospatial analysis and data management.
-   Provide statistical and technical support to users of the
    statistical laboratory teaching and research facilities.
-   Assist users in managing, analyzing, and producing teaching and
    research projects with statistical and/or geospatial data.
-   Develop online documentation and training materials relevant to
    statistics and data management.
-   Help manage workshops and consulting services for faculty, students,
    and data center consultants.
-   Provide expertise, guidance, and feedback to student consultants.
-   Work collaboratively with other IT and library service units
    (Faculty Technology Services and the Business and Documents
    Reference Center).
  
Education and Experience

-   BA/BS or MA degree in statistics, social sciences, information
    science or related fields and two years of experience in an academic
    teaching, research, or user services environment, or an equivalent
    combination of education and experience.
-   Experience with advanced statistics methodology and related software
    (SPSS, SAS, STATA, R, GIS applications)
-   Firm understanding of technical applications in statistical research
    and instruction.
-   Preferred: ABD or Master's degree; statistical consulting
    experience and/or quantitative teaching in a social science field;
    knowledge of and experience with GIS, databases and data management;
    experience managing websites relating to statistics, data resources,
    geospatial and/or social science computing.

Skills & Abilities

-   Ability to manage and prioritize multiple projects simultaneously.
-   Preferred: Experience with HTML/XML, UNIX, network protocols, Perl,
    PHP, and Java programming.
