+++
nid = "1633"
jid = "00089"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1633"
title = "Geospatial and Data Librarian"
employer = "University of Toronto Libraries"
employerurl = "http://main.library.utoronto.ca/"
postdate = "2009-04-09"
archivedate = "2009-04-30"
draft = "false"
+++
Scholars Portal is a cooperative project of the Ontario Council of
University Libraries. The goal of the project is to develop a common
technological and services infrastructure to support the delivery of
electronic resources to researchers and students in Ontario's 21
universities. The Scholars Portal team of librarians and IT
professionals provides services in these areas: inter-library loan
(RACER), e-journals archive, database searching (Scholars Portal
Search), OpenURL linking (SFX), electronic resource management (Verde
ERM), statistical data (ODESI), and citation management (RefWorks).
Scholars Portal is seeking to hire a Geospatial and Data Librarian to
provide ongoing support and enhancement of 'ODESI' and to lead the
implementation of a new 'Geospatial Data Portal'. The 'Geospatial
Data Portal' will establish a shared infrastructure and provide
Ontario's academic researchers with a powerful new set of tools for
searching and analyzing the vast quantities of geo-referenced data
acquired by Ontario's academic libraries. Adding Ontario health data to
the Scholars Portal infrastructure will also be a focus of the project.

RESPONSIBILITIES: The Geospatial and Data Librarian will coordinate the
work of various project teams, develop effective tools for communicating
the goals and progress of the project, prepare progress reports for the
provincial funding authority and OCUL, supervise programmers and interns
hired to develop the Geospatial Data Portal, and provide advice and
guidance to Scholars Portal and OCUL on best practices and current
research in the area of data management. The candidate will also be
expected to work with other OCUL librarians to develop appropriate
description for managing research data collections; investigate new
sources of metadata; keep abreast of new and evolving metadata standards
such as the Data Documentation Initiative (DDI) and projects of the Open
Geospatial Consortium.

Duties will include:

Support

-   work with the data and geospatial librarians in OCUL to provide
    day-to-day support for ODESI and the Geospatial Data Portal
-   supervise the work of application programmers, and of interns and
    student assistants hired to mark up data files for ingest into
    various databases

Project Management

-   work with project teams, composed of volunteers from the OCUL
    libraries, to define policies and procedures regarding service and
    performance measures
-   identify resources required to meet project goals
-   identify risks to successful implementation and develop strategies
    to minimize these risks identify milestones and track progress

Liaison and Communication

-   communicate with software vendors and data providers to maintain
    effective working relationships

Promotion and Training

-   develop promotional and training resources for use in the 20 OCUL
    libraries
-   give presentations on Scholars Portal data services at library
    meetings and academic conferences

Reporting and Budgeting

-   work with the OCUL Executive Director and the Scholars Portal
    Manager to identify resource requirements and track expenditures
-   prepare progress reports for provincial funding authorities and OCUL
    management groups prepare RFI/RFP documents as required
  
Applicants must be a graduate of an ALA accredited library school with
an MLIS/MISt degree or an acceptable equivalent. At least one year of
related experience required. Second masters and/or undergraduate degree
with a preference for fields with a focus on quantitative/spatial
analysis is preferred. Familiarity with database and cataloging
practices and metadata schemas. Experience with XML preferred. Knowledge
of public and proprietary resources for national and international
numeric and geospatial data. Basic familiarity with software for
statistical and geospatial analysis e.g. SAS, SPSS, Stata, GIS
applications (both commercial and open source). Current knowledge of
best practices in managing large datasets, including metadata coding
standards, emerging technologies, and traditional and innovative uses of
geospatial data. Strong organizational and project management skills.
Strong communication skills.
