+++
nid = "1627"
jid = "00084"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1627"
title = "Research Officer, Integrated Census Microdata (I-CeM) Project"
employer = "University of Essex"
employerurl = "http://www.essex.ac.uk/"
postdate = "2009-01-01"
archivedate = "2009-01-18"
draft = "false"
+++
This major new project is funded by the Economic and Social Research
Council and located in the Department of History at the University of
Essex, in collaboration the UK Data Archive. In conjunction with key
commercial partners, the project will create an enhanced census data
collection for Great Britain covering the period 1851 to 1911.

The Research Officer will specialise in the construction of standardised
occupational coding schemes, harmonised over time and, where possible,
mapped to other classificatory schemes. The successful candidate will
also be responsible for investigating the integration and harmonisation
of coding schemes for other key census variables, including family and
household indicators and birthplace geography. The postholder will also
be expected to support the promotion of the project, contribute to
meetings and workshops and the writing of reports, teaching materials
and user guides.
  
Applicants should be educated to degree level and ideally have
experience of research in which methodical working and problem solving
skills were a key part. They should be IT literate, and a knowledge of
the development of large-scale data resources would be a distinct
advantage. This is a fixed term post to 2011 in the first instance.
