+++
nid = "1647"
jid = "00103"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1647"
title = "Data Librarian (Librarian II or III)"
employer = "University of Toronto Libraries (Toronto, ON, Canada)"
employerurl = "http://www.library.utoronto.ca/home/"
postdate = "2010-04-14"
archivedate = "2010-05-10"
draft = "false"
+++
Job Type
Permanent Full-time

Category
Library (Academic)

Description and Duties

The University of Toronto is a major public research institution with a
student body of over 67,000 full and part-time students and over 7,000
faculty members who teach and perform research in hundreds of different
disciplines. The University of Toronto Libraries, which is the largest
academic library in Canada and ranked fourth in North America, supports
teaching and research in all disciplines through service and outreach,
excellent collections and access to extensive digital resources.

RESPONSIBILITIES: The University of Toronto Map and Data Library seeks a
Data Librarian to bring experience, energy, and vision to data services
at the University of Toronto Libraries. Working closely with the Map and
Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Librarian, the successful candidate
will work cooperatively with faculty and other librarians to design and
deliver services at the University of Toronto's Map and Data Library.
The Data Librarian will direct quantitative and textual data library
services, as well as foster coordination of data services across all
three University of Toronto campuses to enhance provision of data
services and the development of collections. The Data Librarian will
work collaboratively with a variety of different constituencies to
promote the use of research data at the University of Toronto.
Instruction in data use in an academic environment will be an important
focus for this position. The Data Librarian will contribute actively to
furthering the mandate and success of the University of Toronto
Libraries. The University of Toronto Library Data Librarian will
continue to cultivate strong connections with the national and
international data community
  
Applicants must be graduates of an accredited library school with an
MLS/MLIS/MISt degree or acceptable equivalent. Applicants should have
full-time professional experience performing data selection,
acquisition, reference, and instruction. A strong knowledge of a variety
of systems for the storage, archiving, and retrieval of data is
required, as is a strong background in statistics. Candidates must be
able to work productively with a variety of different constituencies and
stakeholders. Web development knowledge is necessary for all candidates.
Map and Geographic Information Systems (GIS) knowledge or experience is
an asset. Team building expertise and excellent communication skills are
imperative. The ideal candidate will be energetic, self-motivated, and
possess excellent interpersonal and communication skills, as well as the
ability to work with a variety of user groups in a variety of academic
disciplines.

Compensation
MINIMUM SALARY: Salary and appointment level based on experience and
qualifications. Librarian II: $ 54,600 per annum Librarian III: $
70,600 per annum

Additional Information
NOTE: This position is a permanent status stream position. NOTE:
Librarians at the University of Toronto are members of the University of
Toronto Faculty Association. The University of Toronto is strongly
committed to diversity within its community. The University especially
welcomes applications from visible minority group members, women,
Aboriginal persons, persons with disabilities, members of sexual
minority groups, and others who may contribute to the further
diversification of ideas. All qualified candidates are encouraged to
apply; however, Canadians and permanent residents will be given
priority. The University of Toronto Libraries thank all applicants for
their interest, however, only those applicants selected for an interview
will be contacted.
