+++
nid = "1652"
jid = "00108"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1652"
title = "Team Leader: International Research Infrastructures"
employer = "GESIS-Leibniz Institute for the Social Sciences, Cologne, German"
employerurl = "http://www.gesis.org/"
postdate = "2010-05-03"
archivedate = "2010-05-15"
draft = "false"
+++
GESIS Leibniz Institute for the Social Sciences is an internationally
active institute belonging to the Leibniz Association, funded by the
German Ministry of Education and Research and the Federal States. The
department 'Data Archive for the Social Sciences' in Cologne is
responsible for the acquisition of domestic and international
comparative surveys on sociological and political science topics. The
surveys are processed in accordance with internationally recognized
standards, archived and made available for the scientific public. The
rapid change in our field requires constitutive participation in the
adaptation of concepts and workflows to continuously increasing demands.
To augment this department we are thus seeking for GESIS' site in
Cologne: Two Scientific Team Leaders (M or F) (up to TV-L EG 15). In
addition to heading up the respective work areas (each with
approximately eight co-workers), duties include scientific research and
publishing activities and representing the department at relevant
conferences.
  
As the ideal candidate for this position you will have experience in
team leadership and in project management; in international cooperation
as well as with the acquisition of external funding. You are a good
communicator, team player, flexible, able to work under pressure and
have completed your PhD in a relevant subject. Sound command of both
written and spoken English and German is a prerequisite.

In addition to these general requirements the following special
qualifications are expected:

-   Excellent understanding of social science survey and/or additional
    research data
-   Negotiating skills, and confident presence in international bodies
    and working groups
-   Good knowledge of European institutions in the area of social
    science data services

Position initially limited to two years, with the intention to extend.
We welcome international applicants, with the expectation that
sufficient working knowledge of the German language will be acquired
shortly thereafter.
