+++
nid = "1653"
jid = "00109"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1653"
title = "Qualitative Data Support Services Officer"
employer = "UK Data Archive"
employerurl = "http://www.esds.ac.uk"
postdate = "2010-05-19"
archivedate = "2010-06-15"
draft = "false"
+++
Applications are invited for the post of part-time Qualitative Data
Support Services Officer for immediate appointment. The person appointed
will work within the Economic and Social Data Service (ESDS) Qualidata
team at the UK Data Archive (UKDA) engaging in qualitative data
enhancement and documentation activities. The postholder will undertake
qualitative data processing and documentation work, including for audio
and potentially audiovisual data. The person will also contribute to
user support activities for ESDS Qualidata such as responding to
telephone and email user queries. Where and when appropriate the
appointed person will be expected to assist in the delivery of training
and other outreach events and will help update the content of the ESDS
Qualidata web pages. Other data-related work within the remit of the
ESDS Qualidata section may be undertaken as required.
  
Candidates should be educated to graduate level in the social sciences,
and be highly computer literate, in a Windows environment. Experience of
using MS Office packages including MS Word and MS Excel is essential, as
are excellent English language skills. Knowledge of social science in
general, and experience of social science research data and methodology,
in particular, is also essential. Experience with statistical
analysis/database software, such as qualitative analysis software
packages (CAQDAS) and SPSS, is desirable. Knowledge of, and experience
in, the updating of website content using XHTML would be valued, as
would experience in using audiovisual software.
