+++
nid = "1644"
jid = "00100"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1644"
title = "Life Sciences Data Services Librarian"
employer = "University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Library"
employerurl = "http://www.library.illinois.edu/"
postdate = "2010-01-01"
archivedate = "2010-02-15"
draft = "false"
+++
Responsibilities: The Funk ACES Library is seeking an enthusiastic,
flexible, and forward looking individual to help position the Library to
meet the increasingly technology and informatics dependent needs of our
users. Identified current needs are in the areas of data curation,
digital repository service, web site development, and database
development. There will be subject liaison responsibilities, most likely
in the department of Agricultural and Consumer Economics and another
department in the ACES College. Liaison responsibilities typically
include specialized instruction and reference, as well as some
collection development. This position will serve as the Content
Management System liaison for the Life Sciences Division of the
University Library, and will be responsible for Funk ACES Library web
development. This position will also participate in the provision of
general reference services through scheduled reference desk hours and
on-call reference service in the Funk ACES Library as part of our
reference team. This position will be active in the Library Data
Services Group of the University Library. The successful candidate must
meet requirements for promotion and tenure at the University of
Illinois, which includes research and publication.

Environment: The University of Illinois Library at Urbana-Champaign is
one of the preeminent research collections in the nation and the world.
With more than 9 million volumes and a total of 21 million items, it
ranks third among academic libraries in the United States and first
among public university libraries in the world. As the intellectual
heart of the campus, the Library is committed to maintaining the
strongest collections and services possible and engaging in research and
development activities---both of which support the University's mission
of teaching, research, and public service. The Library currently employs
approximately 100 faculty and 300 staff members. For more detailed
information, please visit http://www.library.illinois.edu/ The Library
consists of more than 30 departmental libraries that are located
throughout campus and administratively organized into eight divisions.
The Funk ACES Library Staff is composed of 3 FTE faculty librarians, 3
FTE support staff, 1.25 FTE library graduate assistants, and
undergraduate student workers. The ACES Library moved into a new,
state-of-the art building in the fall of 2001. The ACES Library is the
primary library serving the agricultural component of Illinois' Land
Grant University. The ACES Library pursues a vigorous service program,
and is active in library instruction. An on-site computer instructional
classroom is available in the library. For more information about the
ACES Library, please visit http://www.library.uiuc.edu/agx/. The ACES
College is divided into 7 individual departments and one graduate
division. Departments served are Agricultural and Consumer Economics,
Agricultural Engineering, Animal Sciences, Crop Sciences, Food Sciences
and Human Nutrition, Human and Community Development, and Natural
Resources and Environmental Sciences. The graduate Division of
Nutritional Sciences and U of I Extension are also within the college.
There are approximately 234 faculty members, 2241 undergraduate students
and 551 graduate students in the ACES College. Wide ranges of
interdisciplinary subjects characterize the instructional interests of
the college. There are strong research and extension components in
addition to instruction. For more information about the College of ACES,
please visit http://www.aces.uiuc.edu/. The Funk ACES Library also
serves the Landscape Architecture department and Urban and Regional
Planning department.
  
Required: MLS from an ALA accredited Library and Information Science
program. Experience providing reference or information services to
diverse academic or research clientele. Experience with or knowledge of
library-based support services for data curation, bioinformatics, or
scholarly communication services. Demonstrated interest in the provision
of proactive service and instruction in a university setting.
Demonstrated ability to work well with others in a collegial
environment. Demonstrated excellent communication skills. Demonstrated
experience in web site development.

Desired: Two years professional public service experience in large
academic library setting. Advanced subject degree or library experience
in economics, agricultural economics, life sciences, social sciences or
an agricultural-related field. Experience teaching in a large university
environment. Some knowledge of technical services applications in a
large university library. Collection development experience. Software
expertise in web based and database applications.
