+++
nid = "1646"
jid = "00102"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1646"
title = "Data Librarian - Three Year Term"
employer = "University of Saskatchewan"
employerurl = "http://www.usask.ca"
postdate = "2010-02-02"
archivedate = "2010-02-22"
draft = "false"
+++
The incumbent in this three year assignment will be responsible for the
discovery, development, and analysis of numerical and statistical data
collections and services, including marketing to the broad campus
community. The successful candidate will provide research and liaison
support to data users across campus, including librarian and IT
colleagues. Additionally, the Data Services Librarian will serve as the
main contact for relevant research centers and with ICPSR and DLI
initiatives, ensuring that the University Library is current and active
in the data community. The individual in this position will work closely
with the GIS librarian in a Data/GIS unit providing a comprehensive
program of data management, support, and services.

Additional duties may be assigned in related areas and/or for identified
strategic priorities.

The University Library follows the liaison librarian model, which
includes reference, instruction, and collections responsibilities to
support on-site and distributed teaching, learning, and research. Under
this structure the Data Services Librarian will be responsible for the
following:

-   Development of the Collections
    Select, develop, and promote resources that support the provision of
    data discovery and access to data sets.
-   Information Services
    Provide in-depth consultation, reference, and information services
    for students, faculty, and researchers in the discovery and
    application of data to support research and teaching activities.
-   Teaching Information Research Skills
    Develop, promote and deliver effective data research instruction
    programs for groups and individuals, including library staff, in the
    discovery and use of data resources. Liaise with instructors to
    integrate data literacy into the curricula of relevant courses and
    develop data subsets and other teaching tools to facilitate the use
    of data.
-   Research and Scholarship
    While not a requirement of this appointment, research and
    scholarship is recognized as practice of professional skills and may
    be pursued as an outcome related to the work of this position.

Administration and Public Service

It is an expectation that all Librarians participate in collegial
activities appropriate to their rank, and are encouraged to engage with
academic or professional organizations
  
A Master of Library Science or equivalent degree from a
university/institution recognized by the University of Saskatchewan is
required. An undergraduate degree in a relevant science or social
science discipline is preferred. Additional data experience or
educational background in the use of data sets, applications, and
software is preferred. Previous academic library experience would be an
asset. Candidates should also possess:

-   Experience using statistical software packages such as SAS or SPSS,
    electronic government statistics and data, and the manipulation of
    datasets
-   Knowledge of quantitative methods of data collection, extraction,
    and analysis
-   Knowledge of current and emerging trends in data services,
    resources, software, and other library related information
    technologies
-   An interest in pursuing a career in academic librarianship and an
    understanding of the educational mission of a research university
-   Knowledge of trends in reference and research services, and the
    delivery of library and information services in the educational
    environment
-   Strong analytical, organizational and customer service skills
-   A commitment to continuing development of professional knowledge and
    skills
-   Excellent listening, oral, and written communication skills
-   Ability to lead and motivate people Candidates must be able to:
-   Effectively liaise with faculty and students and work
    collaboratively to achieve the library's relationships and
    engagement strategy
-   Develop and manage collections in multiple formats
-   Create and maintain online resources and services
-   Work independently as well as in a collegial team environment
-   Adapt and be flexible in a changing and dynamic environment

This is a three-year term position and specific duties are assigned
annually by the Dean, University Library. Librarians as faculty are
members of the University of Saskatchewan Faculty Association. Salary
will be commensurate with qualifications and experience, and for this
position the initial starting salary is anticipated to be within the
range of $52,731 to $57,000. Librarians at the U of S enjoy an
excellent benefits plan.
