+++
nid = "1654"
jid = "00112"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1654"
title = "Life Sciences Data Services Librarian"
employer = "University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Library"
employerurl = "http://www.library.illinois.edu/"
postdate = "2010-06-18"
archivedate = "2010-07-05"
draft = "false"
+++
The Funk ACES Library is seeking an enthusiastic, flexible, and forward
looking individual to help position the Library to meet the increasingly
technology and informatics dependent needs of our users. Identified
current needs are in the areas of data curation, digital repository
service, web site development, and database development. There will be
subject liaison responsibilities, most likely in the department of
Agricultural and Consumer Economics and another department in the ACES
College. Liaison responsibilities typically include specialized
instruction and reference, as well as some collection development. This
position will serve as the Content Management System liaison for the
Life Sciences Division of the University Library, and will be
responsible for Funk ACES Library web development. This position will
also participate in the provision of general reference services through
scheduled reference desk hours and on-call reference service in the Funk
ACES Library as part of our reference team. This position will be active
in the Library Data Services Group of the University Library. The
successful candidate must meet requirements for promotion and tenure at
the University of Illinois, which includes research and publication.

Available: Immediately. Full-time, tenure track position with the rank
of Assistant or Associate Professor of Library Administration.
  

