+++
nid = "1645"
jid = "00101"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1645"
title = "Repository Librarian"
employer = "University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill"
employerurl = "http://www.lib.unc.edu/"
postdate = "2010-01-05"
archivedate = "2010-02-15"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill is seeking a motivated,
self-starter with excellent task management and communication skills to
serve as Repository Librarian for the Carolina Digital Repository (CDR),
the University's institutional and digital preservation repository. The
CDR manages and ensures continuing access to digital content of enduring
value produced or maintained at the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill. It is a University-wide service in support of persistent
access to Carolina's digital scholarship and heritage. The CDR provides
a set of services to help Carolina community members manage and secure
their digital content, and make this content discoverable online to
designated communities, as well as the mechanisms for digital content to
be collected, organized, stored, searched, linked, read, distributed,
indexed, and preserved.

Reporting to the Head of the Library Systems Office, the Repository
Librarian will be responsible for supporting UNC faculty, students, and
staff with information, training, and assistance in depositing digital
materials into the CDR, and for working with the CDR Steering Committee
and with policy, programming, and other staff to define and implement
repository policies, workflows, and capabilities. The Repository
Librarian will have lead responsibility for ensuring that CDR programs
align with the needs of the UNC community and that UNC faculty,
students, and staff are aware of and know how to utilize CDR services.

The Repository Librarian will: oversee and coordinate CDR projects,
prepare and maintain project plans and schedules; communicate with
depositors, steering committee members, and other University
constituents; maintain CDR website and online documentation; work with
librarians, faculty, and the heads of the various academic,
administrative, and research units on campus to identify materials that
would be appropriate to include in the CDR, explain expectations,
policies, and workflows, negotiate deposit agreements, provide services,
training, and support and investigate and resolve user issues; manage
the ingest of materials, including mapping user requirements and
metadata to repository functionality and standards; contribute to the
planning and development of CDR strategy, functionality, and capacity by
gathering and analyzing depositor and user input and feedback;
participate in testing of CDR functionality and planning of needed
changes; ensure that CDR programs are aligned and integrated with other
UNC systems as appropriate; participate in the development and
implementation of policies and workflows that govern the deposit and
management of content in the CDR, including those regarding appropriate
content, metadata standards, access conditions, intellectual property
rights and copyright, commitments to depositors, and types and levels of
service; provide orientation and training on CDR programs, policies, and
workflows to Library staff and others who have faculty liaison and
support responsibilities; manage grant and other externally funded
support for the CDR on an as-needed basis; promote the CDR, including
registering with appropriate harvesting, indexing, and other service
providers; represent the University of North Carolina and its libraries
at appropriate conferences and meetings relative to institutional
repositories specifically and to the larger issues related to scholarly
communication.
  
*Required*: ALA-accredited MLS or equivalent graduate degree in
archival studies or related field. Coursework or experience resulting in
knowledge of principles and practices governing the development and
management of institutional repositories, especially those dealing with
long-term preservation of digital materials. Demonstrated project
management experience. Knowledge of issues pertaining to intellectual
property and copyright and with deposit agreements and scholarly
communication issues surrounding institutional repositories.
Demonstrated ability to work collaboratively with faculty, programmers,
and library or curatorial staff. Excellent communication skills.

*Preferred*: Three or more years of full-time work experience in a
library, archives, museum, or other cultural repository with significant
experience and accomplishments involving the acquisition and management
of born-digital or digitized library, archival, or museum materials.
Experience working with faculty members in a research environment to
collect and preserve their professional papers and data. Experience
writing and managing grants. Active professional involvement, including
publication and presentations, in issues concerning digital preservation
or institutional repository development and management. Supervisory
experience.

Please note the degree requirement is for an ALA-accredited MLS or
equivalent graduate degree in archival studies **or related field.**
Don't be shy about applying if you're not a librarian.
