+++
nid = "1661"
jid = "00117"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1661"
title = "Social Sciences Data Services Librarian"
employer = "University of Pennsylvania Libraries"
employerurl = "http://www.library.upenn.edu"
postdate = "2011-01-19"
archivedate = "2011-02-01"
draft = "false"
+++
Reporting to the Assistant Director for Research and Instructional
Services, the Social Sciences Data Services Librarian provides expertise
and leadership in developing numeric and geospatial data services and
promoting these services to the University of Pennsylvania community and
in developing the Libraries' collections of data resources. As a member
of a team of 10 librarians in the Research and Instructional Services
department, the incumbent participates in developing reference,
outreach, and instructional programs and services in the humanities and
social sciences and provides direct assistance to library users both
in-person and virtually.

Responsibilities

-   Provide reference, outreach, and instructional services related to
    the identification, capture, and extraction of numeric and
    geospatial data to faculty and students from all disciplines within
    the Penn community.
-   Work closely with the Social Sciences Librarian and other colleagues
    to select and support the Libraries' print and electronic data
    resources and promote the use of these collections to the Penn
    community through guides, pathfinders, and web resources.
-   Develop public service initiatives, workshops, and course-related
    instruction to support data analysis, GIS, and metadata creation.
-   Participate in the Libraries' Data Taskforce, keep abreast of the
    activities of departmental libraries and units, and collaborate with
    library colleagues to support eScience and other new forms of
    scholarship as they relate to data curation.
-   Serve as an entrepreneurial leader, keeping abreast of school and
    departmental initiatives and the activities of campus data centers,
    and exploring opportunities for collaboration.
-   Prepare and offer course-related instruction for classes in a range
    of disciplines in the humanities and social sciences and, contingent
    upon disciplinary qualifications and experience, serve as the
    liaison to select departments in the School of Arts and Sciences.
-   Provide reference and research services in person in the Van
    Pelt-Dietrich Library Center and virtually through the Libraries'
    Chat/IM/Texting service.
-   Keep abreast of current trends, developments, and best practices and
    act as the Penn Libraries' liaison to state, national, and
    international data organizations.
  
An ALA-accredited Master's degree in library and information science, or
its equivalent in experience, training, and practice; a minimum of 2
years experience working in an academic library or research center; and
a strong academic background in the social sciences are required. An
additional graduate degree in the social sciences is preferred. The
successful candidate will also have:

-   Demonstrated knowledge of geospatial and numeric data resources and
    an understanding of the application of numeric data and GIS in a
    variety of disciplines.
-   Familiarity with common metadata standards such as DDI, experience
    with statistical software (SPSS, SAS, STATA), and with ArcGIS and
    ArcView.
-   An understanding of the major sources of Social Sciences Data, and
    fluency in the vocabulary employed in the social science data field,
    changing technical aspects of numeric data, and the content and
    application of data files.
-   Experience in using and preparing data set documentation and
    metadata.
-   Excellent teaching and presentation skills and the ability to
    provide instruction to new and experienced users.
-   Strong analytical skills and excellent oral and written
    communication skills.
-   Demonstrated ability to work within a collegial framework and to
    collaborate effectively
-   Demonstrated initiative in program development and project
    management.
-   Excellent interpersonal skills and the ability to work both
    independently and collaboratively.
-   Demonstrated leadership and demonstrated initiative.
