+++
nid = "2882"
jid = "00140"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-09-26 14:13"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/2882"
title = "Digital Data Outreach Librarian"
employer = "Washington University Libraries"
employerurl = "http://library.wustl.edu/"
postdate = "2011-09-26"
archivedate = "2011-10-26"
draft = "false"
+++
Washington University Libraries seek a service-oriented and innovative
librarian to serve in this new position created to assess the digital
data management needs of the Washington University community and find
solutions to assist those needs.

RESPONSIBILITIES

The Digital Data Outreach Librarian will assume overall responsibility
for Library outreach to faculty in all disciplines to best determine
their digital data management needs. The Digital Data Outreach Librarian
will work closely with subject librarians and staff from Digital Library
Services, Library Systems, and Library Assessment to best match
identified faculty needs with library digital capabilities.  The
Librarian will also collaborate with other departments on the Danforth
and Medical campuses to insure a coordinated, university-wide approach
to faculty digital data needs. 

GENERAL INFORMATION

The University: Washington University, located at the western edge of
the City of St. Louis, is a medium sized, independent university founded
in 1853, internationally recognized for excellence in teaching and
research and for the quality of its faculty and student body.


The Libraries: Washington University Libraries include the John M. Olin
Library and 12 school and departmental libraries. The Washington
University Libraries is a member of the Association of Research
Libraries, the Center for Research Libraries, the Greater Western
Library Alliance, and MOBIUS (a consortium of academic libraries with
member colleges and universities in the state of Missouri). For more
information visit library.wustl.edu.
  
Required: MLS or related Master's degree; education and/or relevant
experience in data analysis, data management and statistical
applications; experience with or demonstrable knowledge of research
library digital operations; knowledge of scholarly research processes.
 
Preferred: Second master's degree; research library experience

