+++
nid = "3012"
jid = "00150"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-12-13 12:58"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3012"
title = "Information Architect- Research Systems Analyst"
employer = "Federal Reserve Board"
employerurl = "http://www.federalreserve.gov/"
postdate = "2011-11-16"
archivedate = "2011-12-13"
draft = "false"
+++
The Research Systems Analyst uses complex analysis and computer
programming tools to implement, maintain, and support automated
distributed processing systems and their components in support of the
division's work.
  
[The position requires a bachelor's degree, plus a minimum of one year
of related experience. Experience with user research, iterative, rapid
prototyping, and familiarity with usability testing processes are
required for this position. An active interest in usability, and
experience with the application of user-centered design methodology, is
highly desirable. Strong analytical, organizational, and communication
skills are required. The ability to manage and track multiple projects
is imperative.

The Research Systems Analyst will serve as an **Information Architect**
and will work closely with a small, but growing team of designers and
developers. Successful applicants will have extensive experience in
information architecture, user experience, information science, and
human-computer interaction or related fields. Responsibilities will
include overseeing projects and processes that support a full range of
information management objectives including complex initiatives for
creating, improving, and operating various electronic information
systems, as well as designing, developing, and maintaining information
collections, documents, and related content. ]{.pc-rtg-body}
