+++
nid = "2946"
jid = "00143"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-10-18 07:58"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/2946"
title = "Research Data Manager"
employer = "Landcare Research New Zealand"
employerurl = "http://www.landcareresearch.co.nz/"
postdate = "2011-10-18"
archivedate = "2011-11-18"
draft = "false"
+++
Landcare Research New Zealand has an exciting new position available in
our Information Services & Knowledge Management Team for a Research
Data
Manager.

Landcare Research (a Crown Research Institute) is New Zealand's
foremost
environmental research organisation. Our research and technology
developments are focused on New Zealand's most important environmental
issues: bio-security, pest management, biodiversity, reducing
greenhouse
gas emissions, impacts of rural land use, urban environmental
management, and sustainable business.  Data is a key output of our
research that we are keen to improve management and access to.

We have a position available in our Information Services & Knowledge
Management Team for a Research Data Manager for a fixed term period of
21 months from 1st November 2011 until 31st July 2013. There is the
possibility of further extension.  The Research Data Manager will
champion and co-ordinate the company-wide implementation and
development
of key systems and processes for managing Landcare Research's research
data and enhancing the organisations Data Management culture and
practices.

This position will be preferably based at our Lincoln office (Near
Christchurch on the South Island) but Palmerston North (in the North
Island) is also an option.

  

