+++
nid = "2095"
jid = "00130"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-06-17 12:40"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/2095"
title = "Head, Curation and Preservation Services"
employer = "MIT Libraries"
employerurl = "http://libraries.mit.edu/"
postdate = "2011-06-17"
archivedate = "2011-07-15"
draft = "false"
+++
The MIT Libraries seek an innovative, technologically-savvy professional
to serve on the Libraries' senior leadership team with responsibility
for ensuring long-term access for all information assets under the
Libraries' purview. As Head of the Curation and Preservation Services
department, the successful candidate will join colleagues in the
Information Resources Directorate in managing the life cycle of
information resources and contributing to the Libraries' mission of 
"... developing innovative services, strategies, and systems that
promote discovery, preserve knowledge, and improve worldwide scholarly
communication."
 
Reporting to the Associate Director for Information Resources, this
position is responsible for the coordination of both digital and
physical preservation services including the Wunsch Conservation
Laboratory; promotion of an integrated approach to sustained access to
all current and future content under the stewardship of the Libraries;
implementation of a robust digital preservation program; and provision
of expert advice on curation activities across content types and
disciplines. The Department Head will collaborate with library staff
working across the organization who have complementary roles in such
areas as archives, curation, digitization services, metadata services,
research data management, repository services, software development,
systems infrastructure, and video services.
 
The Information Resources Directorate is comprised of departments whose
work focuses on the spectrum of activities, that support and sustain a
wide range of content, from acquisition to long-term access:
Acquisitions, Metadata, and Enterprise Systems; Collections Strategy and
Management; Curation and Preservation Services; Information Delivery and
Library Access; and Institute Archives and Special Collections.
 
Through a culture that encourages innovation and collaboration, the MIT
Libraries are redefining the role of the 21st century library --
preserving and making collections more accessible than ever before, and
shaping the future of scholarly research. Libraries' staff, at all
levels, contribute to this spirit of innovation and to the mission of
promoting learning, discovery and the advancement of knowledge at MIT
and beyond. "Reinventing the Research Library:  The MIT Libraries in the
21st Century" is a short video that looks at how the MIT Libraries are
expanding beyond their traditional role to shape the research library of
the 21st century --creating innovative services, reaching out to
students and faculty, and leading efforts to increase global access to
MIT's scholarly work.
 
RESPONSIBILITIES:  The Head, Curation and Preservation Services will
provide operational and strategic leadership for the Department
including management of human, financial, and other resources. S/he will
develop policies and a program framework that align the MIT Libraries
with prevailing and emergent standards and practices in curation and
preservation; will work across the organization to foster a shared
understanding of conservation, curation, and preservation activities for
content in all formats; and, will lead and collaborate on research
projects that further the practical solutions to emerging preservation
challenges.  The Head will oversee the integration and coordination of
the work of the Preservation Librarian and the Thomas F. Peterson (1957)
Conservator who together provide a comprehensive conservation program
for paper-based collections, digital reformatting and preservation
services, disaster preparedness and emergency response, and education
and outreach services. S/he will seek opportunities both within the
Institute and with external partners to define preservation requirements
for new or emerging content types and is expected to actively
participate in the curation and preservation community including in the
development of standards and best practices.

  
Required: Master's degree in library or information science from an
ALA-accredited program, or a master's degree in a relevant field
combined with directly applicable experience in curation or preservation
services. Five to seven years relevant experience with digital
preservation or curation services and minimum three years of relevant
supervisory experience. Demonstrated knowledge of best practices and
current trends in digital preservation and evidence of successful
implementation. Demonstrated knowledge of information technology and its
application to curation and preservation programs and services,
including repository systems. Demonstrated ability to work effectively
in a matrix environment with proven success in collaboration and
strategic partnering. Proven effectiveness in program and project
management in a library or research environment. Evidence of excellent
communication, interpersonal, analytical, and creative problem-solving
skills. Commitment to diversity and inclusion both in supporting a
diverse workforce and serving the needs of a diverse population.

Preferred: Experience with writing proposals for external funding, and
administration of externally-funded projects through grants or
philanthropy. Experience with donor relations. Knowledge of conservation
standards and practice. A record of sustained professional contribution
in the field.
