+++
nid = "1660"
jid = "00116"
uid = "1"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-03-06 21:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1660"
title = "Assessment Librarian"
employer = "University of Tenessee, Knoxville Libraries"
employerurl = ""
postdate = "2011-01-19"
archivedate = "2011-02-15"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Tennessee, Knoxville (UTK) Libraries invites
applications for the newly created position of Assessment Librarian. The
Assessment Librarian fosters a culture of assessment within the
University Libraries and leads the design and implementation of a
successful, sustainable assessment program. Engaging staff throughout
the Libraries, the Assessment Librarian analyzes systems and services
for continuous improvement. Working closely with library leaders to
document and disseminate assessment results, the Assessment Librarian
helps to incorporate the knowledge gained through assessment into
library strategic planning and decision-making. The UT Knoxville campus
seeks candidates who have the ability to contribute in meaningful ways
to the diversity and intercultural goals of the University.
  
Required Qualifications: ALA accredited master's degree. Demonstrated
understanding of quantitative and qualitative assessment methodologies
and their application in academic libraries. Experience conducting
analysis and creating customized reports using statistical software
applications (such as Excel, SPSS, atlas.ti). Demonstrated ability to
work successfully in a team environment, as well as independently.
Excellent communication and interpersonal skills. Strong problem
solving, organizational, and presentation skills. Commitment to research
and creative achievement in a tenure-track faculty position. Preferred
Qualifications: Demonstrated successful project management skills.
Experience working with library-specific assessment tools in an academic
or research library environment.
