+++
nid = "2023"
jid = "00127"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-06-17 07:51"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/2023"
title = "Senior Research Associate"
employer = "Cornell Institute for Social and Economic Research (CISER)"
employerurl = "http://ciser.cornell.edu/"
postdate = "2011-05-26"
archivedate = "2011-07-17"
draft = "false"
+++
1.  **Cornell Secure Data Service (CSDS) (50%)**
    
    *[Note: This newly-named service is an amalgam of two distinctly
    separate confidential research environments within CISER: The Census
    Research Data Center (RDC) and the Cornell Restricted Access Data
    Center (CRADC). The CSDS is intended to be an umbrella term that
    encompasses both activities, which are wholly separate in
    reality.]*
    
    a.  Overall supervision of the sensitive, confidential, and highly
        specialized research operations of the Cornell Secure Data
        Service (CSDS), the purpose of which is to provide Cornell
        researchers with access to restricted data while ensuring
        safeguards protecting the confidential and sensitive nature of
        these data.
    b.  Promote, develop, facilitate, and safeguard and report on
        research efforts involving restricted access, secure,
        confidential, or otherwise sensitive research data.
    c.  Present and publish on development of CSDS services and
        resources and related issues and technologies in appropriate
        communities of practice and research.
    d.  Represent Cornell in the process of negotiating agreements and
        preparing data security plans relating to restricted data in
        relations with the U.S. Census Bureau, other federal statistical
        agencies and other providers of restricted-access data. Ensuring
        that the CSDS operates in compliance with the Federal
        Confidential Information Protection and Statistical Efficiency
        Act (CIPSEA), Title 13 regulating the Census Bureau, and similar
        legal requirements is of the utmost importance.
    e.  Represent CISER and interests of its research faculty members
        within Cornell with respect to access to restricted data in
        relations with Cornell's Office of Sponsored Programs and
        Cornell's Institutional Review Board.
    f.  Manage the process of negotiating and preparing data security
        plans in compliance with policies of Cornell, CRADC, and secure
        data providers.
    g.  Supervise and train paraprofessional staff and/or graduate
        students to execute routine CSDS operations, such as transfer of
        data files into and out of the CSDS secure computing
        environment, and submission, account/password setups/renewals,
        system downtime notifications, and tracking of required
        agreements by CSDS users.
    h.  Work with CISER IT staff to assure the development and
        maintenance of the secure technical infrastructure supporting
        the CSDS.

<!-- -->

1.  **Social and economic data instruction and consultation (20%)**
    
    a.  Develop and conduct CISER workshops on social and economic data
        resources. Develop new workshops and training opportunities as
        needed to address the most frequently used data files in funded
        and published social and economic research, as well as
        identifying newly developed data sources which will emerge as
        important for funded and published research.
    b.  Consult with faculty and students in the social sciences and
        allied fields at Cornell University seeking data resources for
        their research, utilizing both internal (e.g., via ICPSR
        membership, from CISER Data Archive) and external (e.g., from
        Census Bureau, OECD) sources. Note that this activity relates
        directly to the research development activities outlined above.
    c.  Recommend research data acquisition/licensing to Research Data
        Management Librarian when consultations reveal no other
        available source.
    d.  Engage and coordinate with librarians serving the social
        sciences and allied fields in Cornell University Library (CUL)
        and with research support personnel in academic units. Provide
        teaching, learning and research support services, from the
        perspective of primary and secondary data source usage to those
        entities.
2.  **Grant writing (20%)**
    
    a.  Participate in resource development including grant writing and
        working with research centers and institutes, such as the
        Cornell Population Program, in the cultivation of support from
        government agencies, foundations, businesses, and individuals.
    b.  Independently design and implement research projects or
        programs, serving as Principal Investigator when appropriate.
3.  **Outreach, professional engagement, and other duties as assigned
    (10%)**
    
    a.  Promote the resources and services of the CSDS through
        presentations, announcements, webinars, etc., to the Cornell
        community.
    b.  Stay abreast of developments affecting the structure and
        delivery of services and resources related to the CSDS
        specifically, and restricted/confidential data services
        generally.
  
1.  Required:
    a.  Ph.D. in a social science discipline with extensive social
        science research experience and a proven track record of
        contributions to the field.
    b.  In-depth knowledge, expertise, and a very high degree of
        experience with social science data resources and connecting
        potential and actual users to them. Experience with designing
        and implementing an effective service model.
    c.  Demonstrated leadership in data user training at the national
        and international level in roles with professional associations
        and statistical agencies.
    d.  Solid understanding and experience with issues related to
        confidential/restricted data and their access/use by academic
        researchers.
    e.  Extensive record of successful grant writing experience.
    f.  Excellent communication and interpersonal skills.
2.  Desired:
    a.  Supervisory and instructional experience.
    b.  Experience with a helpdesk/reference tracking system for the
        handling of questions and responses regarding research data.
