+++
nid = "1918"
jid = "00124"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-05-19 13:11"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1918"
title = "Scientific Data Curation Specialist / Metadata Librarian"
employer = "Cornell University Library"
employerurl = "http://www.library.cornell.edu/"
postdate = "2011-05-19"
archivedate = "2011-05-30"
draft = "false"
+++
Cornell University Libraries seeks an analytical, creative individual
interested in scientific research data, digital resources, technology,
and metadata to become our newest information professional.  The
Scientific Data Curation Specialist is actively engaged across science
fields to support e-science, digital data curation, and cyberscholarship
working closely with other library staff.  This position has three main
emphases: research data consultation, digital resources discovery, and
professional and research activities.  First, the Scientific Data
Curation Specialist focuses on metadata issues related to the data
curation lifecycle while providing consultation to Cornell researchers. 
Second, s/he explores semantic approaches and ontologies while working
on initiatives related to the discovery of digital resources.  Third,
s/he is professionally involved and conducts research aligning with
her/his job duties and interests.  To be successful, close collaboration
is essential in working with faculty and library staff devoted to
digital libraries, information technologies, public services, technical
services, and data working groups.


Duties and Responsibilities:
Research Data Consultation
Participates in the Research Data Management Service Group
(http://data.research.cornell.edu/).  Performs outreach and consults
with Cornell's faculty, staff, and community partners on information
organization and access needs related to research data. Assists in the
creation of data management plans.  Creates and maintains local
documentation on metadata standards and metadata application
guidelines.  Participates in the development of DataStar
(http://datastar.mannlib.cornell.edu/).  Stays abreast of scientific
research trends, data documentation tools, and standards important for
data exchange, reuse, and interoperability.


Digital Resources Discovery
Participates in initiatives related to the discovery of digital
resources. Explores semantic approaches, ontologies in the sciences,
linked open data, and bibliometrics as they may be applicable to
projects and services.  Assesses and works to improve access to
resources such as data sets, e-books, library web sites, and
locally-created digital collections.  Advises on digital preservation
strategies, including metadata used for digital repositories.  Suggests
methods for streamlining or automating metadata creation and management,
using various tools for metadata manipulation and scripting.  Plays a
consulting role in the development of VIVO (http://vivo.cornell.edu/).

Professional and Research Activities
Actively participates in departmental, library-wide, and national
professional working groups, task forces, instruction programs, and
committees.  Seeks opportunities to enhance one's own professional
knowledge, skills, and abilities.  Monitors and contributes to the
development of local, national, and international metadata standards and
trends.  Conducts research and contributes to professional publications
and forums in areas related to research data, metadata, access to
information, and digital libraries.

Background:  Cornell University is an Ivy League comprehensive research
university located in Ithaca in the scenic Finger Lakes region of
upstate New York.  The town and university offer a unique cosmopolitan
and international atmosphere in a beautiful natural setting of
waterfalls, gorges, and lakes.  The university comprises 14 schools with
over 2,700 faculty members and nearly 21,600 students enrolled in
undergraduate, graduate and professional schools.  The Cornell
University Library is a vigorous professional organization with a strong
track record in innovation and service quality.  It contains nearly 8
million printed volumes, 99,000 current serials in print or online, over
650,000 additional networked electronic resources, and rich materials in
other formats.  The Library was a recipient of the Association of
College and Research Libraries' Excellence in Academic Libraries Award
in 2002.

Comprehensive benefits package including 22 vacation days, 11 paid
holidays, health insurance, life insurance, and university retirement
contributions (TIAA-CREF and other options).  Professional travel
funding available.
  
Required Qualifications:

-   Advanced degree in science, information science, or related field.
-   Knowledge of at least one science discipline and its research data
    methods.
-   Knowledge of XML, scientific data formats, and scientific metadata
    standards.
-   Familiarity with semantic web technologies, ontology editors, and
    web services and/or capacity to develop expertise in these areas.
-   Strong communication, interpersonal, and presentation skills.
-   Demonstrated ability to plan, document, and complete projects.
-   Ability to work well in a collaborative team-based environment.
-   Self-motivated and ability to multitask.

Desired Qualifications:

-   Experience with one or more metadata manipulation and scripting
    languages: XSLT, Java, Perl, Python, or PHP.
-   Experience with metadata issues related to the discovery of academic
    resources.
-   Experience with ontologies in the sciences, linked open data, and/or
    bibliometrics.
-   Experience with digital preservation standards and best practices.
-   Experience with repository platforms.
