+++
nid = "1757"
jid = "00122"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-05-05 10:20"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/1757"
title = "Physics Librarian & Research Data Librarian"
employer = "University of Toronto Libraries"
employerurl = "http://www.library.utoronto.ca/"
postdate = "2011-05-05"
archivedate = "2011-05-31"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Toronto is a major public research institution with a
student body of over 67,000 full and part-time students and over 7,000
faculty members who teach and perform research in hundreds of different
disciplines. The University of Toronto Libraries, which is the largest
academic library in Canada and ranked fourth in North America, supports
teaching and research in all disciplines through service and outreach,
excellent collections and access to extensive digital resources.

In the role of Physics Librarian, and reporting to the Chair, Department
of Physics, the incumbent will work proactively and collaboratively with
Physics faculty, graduate and undergraduate students and staff to
provide reference service, in-depth research assistance, faculty
liaison, and information literacy including one-on-one or
group/classroom instruction. In addition, the incumbent will work with
the Chair and CAO to develop a plan for service improvements via the
innovative use of new technologies, including but not restricted to
assisting with web-related projects.

As Physics Librarian the incumbent will manage the Physics Library
budget and its day-to-day activities including collection development,
electronic archiving, and Blackboard support. The incumbent will have
oversight for the creation of subject reference aids and guides as
appropriate and maintenance of the Physics Library website. The
successful candidate will serve on appropriate faculty, library and
university committees and will liaise with the Central Library on issues
related to the Physics Library. Other responsibilities include the
supervision of a .5 FTE library technician and student assistants,
hiring and staff training as needed and may change over time as the
libraries' provision of information services evolves.

In the role of Research Data Librarian (Sciences and Engineering),
reporting to the Head, Engineering & Computer Science Library, the
incumbent will work collaboratively with other University data
librarians and science librarians to develop a sustainable Science and
Engineering Research Data service that will integrate appropriately with
other library data services. The successful candidate will provide
leadership in the area of data stewardship for science librarians at UTL
and within the science research community to develop and sustain
resources and services that assist faculty, researchers, and students
with preserving and managing their research data. In this position, the
candidate will also provide reference and research assistance to
students and faculty in the Department of Engineering at the Engineering
Library information desk.

This is a two year contract position at the level of Librarian II.
  
Applicants must be graduates of an accredited library school with an
MLS/MISt degree or acceptable equivalent. An undergraduate degree or
related experience in physical sciences is preferred. Experience
providing reference and information literacy instruction in an academic
library for at least one year and an understanding of the science
research process and the data creation cycle are required. Basic
knowledge of HTML and web publishing is desirable. Familiarity with web
content management software preferred. Excellent skills are required in
the following areas: oral & written English, research, interpersonal
skills, analytical skills, sound judgment, presentation skills and
organizational abilities. The successful candidate will have a strong
service orientation, the ability to manage a diverse workload,
initiative, flexibility, attention to detail, and a commitment to
continuous learning.
