+++
nid = "2947"
jid = "00144"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2011-10-18 08:26"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/2947"
title = "e-Research Librarian"
employer = "University of Maryland Libraries"
employerurl = "http://www.lib.umd.edu/"
postdate = "2011-10-18"
archivedate = "2011-10-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Maryland Libraries is seeking an e-Research Librarian
in the Post-Master's Program. This is a two year position which will
provide an opportunity for a new librarian to gain exposure to an
academic library environment and exercise leadership in the development
and implementation of policies and practices relating to e-Research, a
new area of engagement for the Libraries. The incumbent will help define
a completely new role for librarians, which will allow them to become
more closely integrated into the educational and research process at the
University of Maryland.
 
Reporting to the Director of Public Services, the e-Research Librarian:
actively participates in university-wide initiatives to develop and
design policies, sustainable services, and infrastructure to enable
faculty and students to preserve and make available their research data;
partners with internal units (such as GIS and DRUM -- Digital Repository
at the University of Maryland) and external units (such as the Office of
the Vice President for Research, Office of Information Technology, and
the Maryland Institute for Technology in the Humanities) to develop a
data-publishing model that leverages library services in support of data
management and preservation; assists faculty with development of data
management plans for grant applications; serves as an active member of
the Public Services Division, contributing to divisional initiatives and
leading specific projects; working closely with subject librarians,
incorporates support for data management and preservation into library
services; maintains close engagement with issues relating to scholarly
communications such as copyright, open access, and data management and
preservation.
  
-   MLS degree from an ALA-accredited institution of higher education
    received December 2008 or later.
-   Demonstrated subject knowledge and experience in sciences or
    engineering including understanding of issues related to scientific
    research and scholarly publishing.
-   Demonstrated knowledge of issues and technical challenges related to
    use and archiving of datasets. 
-   Familiarity with academic, research, or special libraries.
