+++
nid = "3076"
jid = "00171"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2012-04-05 08:30"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3076"
title = "Research, Instruction and Data Librarian for the Social Sciences"
employer = "Tufts University"
employerurl = ""
postdate = "2012-04-05"
archivedate = "2012-05-04"
draft = "false"
+++
[]{.kr2x_content}

The Research and Instruction Department coordinates library support for
learning, teaching, and research within the School of Arts & Sciences
and the School of Engineering.  Research and Instruction Librarians
provide research assistance services for faculty, students, and staff,
offered within the library and virtually; partner with faculty to
incorporate curriculum-based research and information literacy
activities into courses; design library instruction workshops for
students and faculty; and develop new models and programs to support
research and the educational mission of the University.

The position of Research, Instruction, and Data Librarian for the Social
Sciences provides leadership and expertise in developing library
services related to the discovery, use, and management of locally and
externally available datasets in the social sciences; primary research
and instruction librarian for the academic departments of Anthropology
and Sociology; assists in supporting other social sciences departments
and interdisciplinary programs; supports the use of GIS in the social
sciences; provides assistance to researchers in the social sciences
writing grant-required data management plans; assists with first-year
library instruction and citation tools workshops;  provides general
research assistance services both virtually and on the reference desk;
serves on library-wide teams.
  
[[]{.kr2x_content}]{.kr2x_content}

**Basic Requirements:**

-   Master's of Library Science.
-   Two (2) years of related work experience.
-   Experience with library research tools relevant to the Social
    Sciences.
-   Experience working with and supporting students and faculty in
    academic departments via outreach, research assistance, and
    teaching; Demonstrated success integrating library services and
    resources into a social sciences curriculum.

**Preferred Qualifications:** 

-   Advanced degree in the social sciences.
-   Knowledge of major quantitative software packages utilized in the
    social sciences such as Stata, SPSS, and SAS.
-   Knowledge of major qualitative software packages used in the social
    sciences such as NVivo and ATLAS.ti.
-   Knowledge surrounding the application of Geographical Information
    Systems and related software.
-   Knowledge of the scholarly communications process (publishing,
    copyright, repositories).

**Special Work Schedule Requirements:**

-   May be required to work one evening per week at the Reference Desk;
    may require occasional evening and early morning library instruction
    classes.  
