+++
nid = "3177"
jid = "00188"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2012-08-03 13:49"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3177"
title = "Science and Social Science Research Data Librarian"
employer = "Center for Science and Social Science Information, Yale University Library"
employerurl = "http://csssi.yale.edu"
postdate = "2012-07-31"
archivedate = "2012-09-30"
draft = "false"
+++
Yale University offers exciting opportunities for achievement and growth
in New Haven, Connecticut.  Conveniently located between Boston and New
York, New Haven is the creative capital of Connecticut with cultural
resources that include two major art museums, a critically-acclaimed
repertory theater, state-of-the-art concert hall, and world-renowned
schools of Architecture, Art, Drama, and Music.
The University and the Library
The Yale University Library, as one of the world's leading research
libraries, collects, organizes, preserves, and provides access to and
services for a rich and unique record of human thought and creativity.
It fosters intellectual growth and supports the teaching and research
missions of Yale University and scholarly communities worldwide. A
distinctive strength is its rich spectrum of resources, including around
12.8 million volumes and information in all media, ranging from ancient
papyri to early printed books to electronic databases. The Library is
engaging in numerous projects to expand access to its physical and
digital collections. Housed in eighteen buildings including the Sterling
Memorial Library, the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library, and the
Bass Library, it employs a dynamic and diverse staff of approximately
five hundred who offer innovative and flexible services to library
readers.  For additional information on the Yale University Library,
please visit the Library's web site at www.library.yale.edu.
 
**Departmental Focus**
 
Reporting to the Director of the Science and Social Science Libraries,
provides support in the discovery, use and management of locally created
and externally available data; collaborates with subject librarians, GIS
specialists, and StatLab staff to develop scalable, sustainable, and
domain-appropriate data services in support of science and social
science research at Yale; and may represent YUL to state, national and
international data organizations.  Located at a consultation space in
the Engineering classroom building and an office at The Center for
Science and Social Science Information, works collaboratively with
another Science and Social Science Data Librarian and is responsible for
increasing visibility of available data resources through research
support consultations, and other outreach efforts. Participates in
research support and instruction program planning and implementation in
the science and social science libraries and collaborates with other
libraries and campus units.
 
**Departmental Responsibilities**
 
1.     Providing training and support in the discovery and management of
locally created and externally available data, including numeric and
geospatial data, and using associated software
2.     Identifying and acquiring data resources in the sciences and
social sciences for use by the Yale community; reviewing licenses and
contracts for appropriate terms of agreement in cooperation with
electronic resources staff as needed
3.     Promoting the data resources and services provided by the Library
through announcements, orientations and instruction, collaboration with
subject-specialist librarians and other research staff in support of
researchers
4.      Collaborating with others to develop scalable, sustainable, and
domain-appropriate data services in support of science and social
science research at Yale
5.      Advising Technical Services staff on receipt, processing and
cataloging requirements for datasets
6.     Representing and acting as YUL's liaison to state, national and
international data organizations where appropriate
7.     Collaborating with other libraries and campus units including,
Information Technology Services (ITS), Human Research Protection
Program, and faculty, to investigate, develop and sustain programs to:
7.1.   make datasets created by Yale faculty and students available
7.2.   optimize functions for discovery and preservation of data and its
associated metadata in library catalogs, data archives/repositories,
cross-collection search engines, and similar systems
7.3.   develop and refine policies, guidelines, and/or best practices on
data ownership, dataset version tracking, documentation of datasets for
publishing, and related matters
7.4.   assist researchers writing grant-required data management plans
8.     Participating in research and instruction services in the Center
for Science and Social Science Information
9.     Participating in library-wide committees as appropriate
10.  Participating in the Center for Science and Social Science
Information and other science libraries' program planning and
implementation.
  
Master's degree in Library Science from an American Library Association
accredited Library school. In selected instances, a post-graduate degree
in a related discipline may be required or substituted for an MLS.
Appointment to Librarian I  rank is limited to two years at which time
it is expected that the individual will develop necessary requirements
to meet expectations of performance at the Librarian 2 level.
 
**Required Skills and Abilities**
1.      Appointment at the rank of Librarian 2 requires a minimum of
three years, and Librarian 3 five years, of relevant professional
library experience and professional accomplishments appropriate to the
rank.
2.      Demonstrated knowledge of statistical and spatial software for
data analysis and with online and network based information systems.
Familiarity with common metadata standards, e.g., DDI. Familiarity with
principles of database design.
3.      Knowledge of or experience with  GIS data and software, such as
ArcGIS. Familiarity with MATLAB, LaTeX, BibTeX and other specialized
engineering related software. Familiarity with XML. Familiarity with
data archival procedures.
4.      Demonstrated record of designing projects and bringing them to a
conclusion in a timely fashion; working collegially and cooperatively
within and across organizations; working independently with varied user
groups in a complex organization and collaborate in a rapidly changing
team environment.
5.      Strong public service orientation. Excellent analytical,
organizational, management, oral and written communications, and
interpersonal skills required.
 
**Preferred Education, Experience, and Skills**
1.      Familiarity with data visualization techniques.
2.      Experience providing public service and instruction in an
academic research library setting. Undergraduate and/or advanced degree
in engineering, math, science or social science.
3.      Reading knowledge of one or more Western European languages.
