+++
nid = "3167"
jid = "00178"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2012-07-11 12:38"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3167"
title = "Data Services Coordinator, Social Sciences Libraries Division (repost)"
employer = "Columbia University Libraries "
employerurl = "http://library.columbia.edu/ "
postdate = "2012-06-14"
archivedate = "2012-07-31"
draft = "false"
+++
The Columbia University Libraries invites nominations and applications
for the position of Data Services Coordinator, Social Sciences Libraries
division.  The Data Services Coordinator will coordinate the development
and delivery of data-intensive services to faculty and students from the
social science disciplines.  As a member of the team providing high-end
data support in the Digital Social Sciences Center, the Data Services
Coordinator will help users find, manipulate and analyze numeric data
and assist in the use of statistical software.  The Data Services
Coordinator will provide support for qualitative data analysis tools and
will help develop a coordinated approach to data services programming
across the organization.  The Data Services Coordinator will work with
colleagues to identify data-intensive research initiatives within the
social sciences research community and engage opportunities for
collaboration.  The Data Services Coordinator will engage technologies
emerging as critical to research and teaching in the social sciences,
including those supporting data-intensive research, data visualization,
etc.  The Data Services Coordinator will also support the evolution and
enhancement of innovative services and technology initiatives in virtual
environments and on mobile web and social computing platforms. This
position will report to the Director of the Social Sciences Libraries
Division.
  
The successful candidate will have:  

-   A Masters or PhD in a social science discipline such as statistics,
    economics, library science, etc., or an equivalent combination of
    education and demonstrated experience manipulating and analyzing
    numeric data
-   demonstrated experience using quantitative research tools such as
    SPSS, Stata, R. etc.
-   demonstrated ability to work collegially and cooperatively within
    and across organizations.
-   ability to work independently with varied user groups in a complex
    organization and function collaboratively in a rapidly changing team
    environment.
-   strong public service orientation.
-   excellent analytical, organizational, oral and written
    communications, and interpersonal skills.

 

Also highly desirable:

-   experience providing research support in an academic library setting
-   demonstrated experience using spatial data and GIS tools such as
    ArcGIS
-   demonstrated experience using qualitative research tools such as
    NVivio or Atlas.ti
-   familiarity with visualization technologies
-   demonstrated record of success designing projects and bringing them
    to a conclusion in a timely fashion.
