+++
nid = "3072"
jid = "00169"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2012-03-21 11:27"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3072"
title = "Senior Researcher"
employer = "GESIS – Leibniz Institute for the Social Sciences"
employerurl = "http://www.gesis.org/"
postdate = "2012-03-21"
archivedate = "2012-03-23"
draft = "false"
+++
We are seeking for our location in Cologne in the department "Data
Archive for the Social Sciences", to begin as soon as possible, a 
Senior Researcher (m/f)
(Salary group 14 TV-L, 100%, initial contract for 4 years)
 
GESIS is the curator for significant and continuously growing amounts of
potentially disclosive research data. To facilitate the use of such data
by researchers, a „Safe Data Center" (SDC) is to be established,
allowing for scientific analyses of the data in compliance with privacy
regulations.
 
Your task will be to develop the SDC as an operative service in several
stages (with the ultimate perspective of remote computing facilities in
a virtualised infrastructure). This entails re-designing the relevant
workflows for disclosive data at Germany's largest provider for research
data in the Social Sciences such that the SDC is systematically
integrated in the processes of preparing and disseminating these
research data.
  
Among your qualifications is a doctoral degree or PhD in a relevant
discipline (i.e., one of the Social Sciences, Statistics, Information
Science, Information Economics, Informatics). You already have
experience with preparing disclosive data for research uses, therefore
you are familiar with the methodological, technical, and legal
requirements for handling such data. As a dedicated team player you are
able to design and to dynamically implement workflow solutions adequate
to a sometimes complex distribution of work among several teams. You are
a good communicator, both in German and English language. Research and
publication activities in your area of work are expected.
