+++
nid = "3178"
jid = "00190"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2012-08-03 13:58"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3178"
title = "Data Curation Faculty Position"
employer = "The University of Washington iSchool"
employerurl = "http://ischool.uw.edu/"
postdate = "2012-08-03"
archivedate = "2012-09-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Washington Information School is building an
innovative program in data sciences and data curation. We seek a
creative, forward-thinking individual to catalyze this growth. The
individual we hire will have a strong commitment to excellence in both
research and teaching and be excited by and able to thrive in a
diverse,  intellectually stimulating, multi-disciplinary environment.
 
  
Scholars from all areas of library and information science, information
management, and related fields are welcomed. Specializations of
particular interest include any of the following with an emphasis on
curation and management of data in the context of institutional settings
such as cultural heritage organizations, libraries and business:
 

-   Data/digital curation
-   Digital libraries and repositories
-   Data/digital archives
-   Data management and intellectual property issues related to large
    data stores and data warehouses
-   Digital preservation systems and technologies
-   Multicultural perspectives on data curation and management
-   Long term data access
-   Data lifecycle
-   Data sciences

Our new colleague will join a broad-based, inclusive information school.
Faculty members teach across programs. University of Washington faculty
engage in teaching, research and service. Candidates should demonstrate
a strong commitment to bridging research and practice through
technological implementation and innovation. This is a full-time 9 month
appointment anticipated at the rank of Assistant Professor, Associate
Professor or Professor, commensurate with qualifications and experience.
Applicants must have a PhD or equivalent degree by date of appointment.
