+++
nid = "3170"
jid = "00183"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2012-07-11 14:03"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3170"
title = "Research Data Curator"
employer = "University of Melbourne"
employerurl = "http://unimelb.edu.au/"
postdate = "2012-06-26"
archivedate = "2012-07-31"
draft = "false"
+++
The Research Data Curator will be a highly flexible, collaborative and
innovative individual, committed to providing the best possible service
to our research community. The incumbent will undertake a range of
operational and project-based activities that will advance the Library's
strategic objectives for expanded research data identification,
management, curation and preservation support, tools and services.

This is a new position in the Library that will incorporate existing and
emerging elements of research data support and services. It is an
opportunity for the right candidate to help create and establish new
services and tools for the management of research data. The incumbent
will play a leading role in providing guidance and support in
identification and long-term management of research data throughout the
data lifecycle, including issues of digital preservation and access,
intellectual property rights, and security of sensitive data.

The incumbent will identify, implement, assess, and support the use of
technologies that support both qualitative and quantitative data
gathering, management, visualization, and analysis. They will also
assist in the implementation of software, policy, workflows and other
change management required to maximise exposure and reuse of research
data sets.

The position will be located within the Information Management Advice
and Support (IMAS) team and will collaborate with staff from both inside
and outside of the library devoted to supporting research data
management. In particular, the position has close working relationships
with the eScholarship Research Centre (ESRC), and the Research team in
ITS.
The position reports to the Manager, Information Management Services.
  
ESSENTIAL

-   Completion of a good first degree in a relevant research based
    discipline, preferably with research experience.
-   Completion of a post graduate degree (or significant progress
    towards completion) in information management or information
    technology.
-   Extensive highly relevant experience in research data management as
    a researcher or research data manager or research data repository
    manager or digital archivist or in similar roles.
-   Knowledge of issues and developments in eResearch, data management
    or repository development.
-   Demonstrated experience in curating and handling large data sets
    with particular understanding of requirements for longer term
    digital archiving.
-   A detailed understanding of the OAIS model.
-   Experience using standards based content management systems and
    collection management software, including an understanding of
    database systems, SQL queries, XML, RDF, scientific metadata
    standards, API development, and related technologies; as well as
    protocols such as OAI-PMH.
-   High-level interpersonal, consultation and negotiation skills,
    including the ability to liaise effectively with a diverse range of
    stakeholders and to communicate effectively on complex technical
    issues with technical and non-technical audiences.
-   Demonstrated capacity to analyse complex situations to transform
    practices and resolve issues that emerge.
-   Highly developed organisational and analytical skills with
    demonstrable ability to work independently as well as
    collaboratively, to set priorities, show initiative and balance the
    demands of working in a complex work context.
-   Demonstrated understanding of academic research processes with
    capability and interest in developing in-depth knowledge of the
    research and collection management needs of researchers at the
    University.
-   Demonstrated ability to initiate and establish good working
    relationships with academic staff and other key stakeholders with a
    strong client-focus.
-   Highly developed presentation, written, oral and interpersonal
    communication skills.


DESIRABLE

-   Ability to use XSLT, Python or PHP languages with some relevant
    programming experience is highly desirable.
-   Experience with ontologies and metadata issues related to the
    discovery of academic resources.
-   Training and experience in project management.
-   Current knowledge of the Australian Higher Education landscape and
    understanding of research environment in a University.
-   Understanding of legal, policy and ethical frameworks governing
    research data.
