+++
nid = "3161"
jid = "00180"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2012-06-15 11:46"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3161"
title = "Manager, Data Management Services REPOST"
employer = "Johns Hopkins University - Data Management Services"
employerurl = "http://dmp.data.jhu.edu/ "
postdate = "2012-06-15"
archivedate = "2012-08-31"
draft = "false"
+++
Reposted to IASSIST 25/07/2012.

The Manager of Data Management Services manages a team that provides
data management and planning services, including both data management
consulting and technical staff. This position also provides consultative
data management planning support to JHU Principle Investigators.

 

Primary Duties and Responsibilities

Manages team providing data management and planning services (50%):

 

-   Leads continued development and expansion of the JHU Data Management
    Services and champions use within the JHU Community.
-   Supervises team, including setting goals, performance management,
    and development.
-   Works with team to assess services, continuously improve customer
    support, and benchmark services within the library community.
-   Maintain relationships with primary JHU stakeholders supporting
    services and oversee all administrative needs.
-   Participate in defining requirements for software development.
-   Tracks and plans for storage expansion and participates in storage
    option evaluation and implementation.
-   Works with Head of the Entrepreneurial Library program on budgeting,
    financial projections, service center fee development, contractual
    and legal matters, recruitment, and development of services for
    external provision.
-   Liaise as needed with the Associate Dean of Research Data Management
    and Chief IT Architect of the Digital Research and Curation Center.

Provides data management planning services (50%):

 

-   Manage inquiries from JHU PIs for data management planning support.
-   Provide consultative support to PIs including evaluation of data
    planning needs, assessing short and long term options and benefits,
    catering planning to specific granting agency requirements, and
    editing data management plans.
-   Track specific scientific domain areas building knowledge and
    expertise in data types, formats, and needs within domain.
-   Identify data standards, metadata standards, best practices for data
    management, etc. to continuously build expertise and improve
    provision of service.
-   Maintain knowledge on a broad range of data repositories including
    their submission, Intellectual Property, and use arrangements, and
    provide guidance on repository selection for deposit.
-   Proactively collaborate and coordinate with team to plan for data
    management.
-   Collaborate with others in the library to effectively communicate
    services to faculty, researchers, and departments.
-   Responsible for manage short and long-term communication and
    relationship with PIs.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Masters of Science, Engineering or Library Science.
  
  A minimum of three (3) years combined of library, information
  technology, informatics, and/or scientific research experience.
  
  A minimum of two years (2) years of management or supervisory
  experience.
  
  Experience leading and managing service, product or project teams
  preferred.
  
  Experience working with scientific data management and/or curation
  preferred.
  
  Experience with one or more components of the research data life cycle:
  creation, processing, analyzing, preserving, providing access to, and
  re-using.
  
  Experience with National Science Foundation proposals a plus.
  
  Superb people and diplomacy skills, strong team-orientation, and
  professional attitude.
  
  Clear and consistent communicator skilled in networking and outreach
  efforts
  
  Must be self motivated, pro-active, willing to take on new challenges
  and solve problems with minimal supervision.
  
  Good listener and skilled negotiator with a high degree of customer
  orientation.
  
  Strong writing skills.
  
  Strong project planning, management, and execution skills.
  
  Demonstrated ability to work with and easily adapt to new technology.
  
  Experience managing budgets preferred.
  
  Experience managing relationships and/or partnerships with other
  institutions or vendors a plus.

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE: The successful candidate(s) for this position will be subject to a
pre-employment background check.
