+++
nid = "3078"
jid = "00172"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2012-04-20 14:03"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3078"
title = "Data Librarian"
employer = " Barnard College"
employerurl = "http://library.barnard.edu/"
postdate = "2012-04-11"
archivedate = "2012-05-28"
draft = "false"
+++
Barnard College seeks an innovative and service-oriented individual for
the position of Data Librarian and Manager of the Empirical Reasoning
Lab. The Data Librarian has the opportunity to assist in the development
of an exciting new program that provides direct and programmatic support
for the faculty's efforts to integrate empirical reasoning throughout
the Barnard curriculum. As Manager of the Empirical Reasoning Lab, the
Librarian will play a key role in supporting "Critical and Empirical
Approaches to Problem-Solving in the Liberal Arts Curriculum" (CEAPS), a
program that will focus on preparing undergraduate students to become
proficient with the theoretical underpinnings and practical applications
of empirical reasoning and critical inquiry in the context of a liberal
arts education. The Librarian will identify, implement, assess, and
support the use of technologies across the Barnard curriculum that
support both qualitative and quantitative data gathering, management,
visualization, and analysis. The Librarian will hire, train, and
supervise a staff of graduate assistants and undergraduate "empirical
reasoning fellows" to work in the lab and support specific classes.
Reporting to the Director of Research and Instructional Services (RIS),
the Data Librarian joins a talented team of colleagues in the provision
of research and instructional services to the Barnard and Columbia
communities. Depending on education, qualifications, and interests, the
Data Librarian will serve as the primary liaison and personal librarian
for Barnard students and faculty in assigned departments and programs.
The Librarian will also participate in the development, evaluation, and
management of related areas of the circulating and reference
collections, and collaborate with colleagues at Columbia University on
the acquisition of data sets and analytical software tools. Some evening
and weekend hours may be required.

  
The ideal candidate will have an accredited MLS or an advanced degree in
a relevant subject area or an equivalent combination of education and
experience. The candidate will have a demonstrated knowledge of the
concepts, pedagogy, research, and scholarly trends in empirical research
and be able to communicate effectively with faculty and students about
textual, numeric, and spatial data resources. The candidate will have
experience in managing complex projects and a demonstrated ability to
work collaboratively and independently.
