+++
nid = "3172"
jid = "00186"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2012-07-12 13:37"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3172"
title = "Department Head of Maps, Data & Government Information Centre (MADGIC)"
employer = "Carleton University Library"
employerurl = "http://www.library.carleton.ca"
postdate = "2012-07-12"
archivedate = "2012-07-31"
draft = "false"
+++
The Library at Carleton University invites applications from qualified
candidates for the position of Head of MADGIC. This is a preliminary
(tenure track) appointment at the rank of librarian 3 or 4. The term of
office for a Library Department Head shall normally be five (5) years;
Renewal is possible within the terms of the collective agreement.

Under the general direction of the Associate University Librarian
(Research, Scholarship and Technology), the incumbent is responsible for
co-ordination and management of all operations and staff of MADGIC; for
establishing the goals, priorities and procedures for the department;
for ensuring effective provision of research and user services with an
emphasis on use of information technology to deliver services. The
incumbent works in close collaboration with Department Heads,
administrative and academic departments to develop such services;
assists in representing the Library to individuals and groups on and off
campus; and performs other related duties.
The incumbent is also responsible for providing general reference and
instruction for maps, geospatial, data and government information
resources, and manages an assigned area of the Government Documents
collection in relation to collection development, cataloguing and
reference specialization.
  
Applicants must have an undergraduate degree plus a Master's degree in
Library and Information Science from an accredited library school or
equivalent and a minimum of 5 years of progressively responsible library
experience, preferably in an academic setting.


**Knowledge, Skills & Experience**

-   Extensive knowledge and understanding of library policies and
    operations, especially as they relate to the management of a
    specialized collection of social sciences data, government
    publications, cartographic and geospatial materials, to the
    supporting processes for acquisition and description of these
    primary resources, and to the services and structures for their use.
-   Thorough knowledge of University teaching and research programs in
    terms of collection development, research support and instruction
    needs at Carleton University.
-   Knowledge of current trends in the production, dissemination and
    preservation of governmentinformation, cartographic resources and
    data.
-   Knowledge of current trends in academic library instruction,
    reference work and research support.
-   Demonstrated interest in innovative use of technologies for
    provision of research support services.
-   Ability to engage effectively in analysis, planning, and goal
    setting; demonstrated flexibility and innovative approaches to
    problem solving
-   Proven ability to work collaboratively with others to promote
    positive organizational change
-   Strong leadership and team-building skills in order to manage,
    motivate, and develop the staff of a major library department in an
    effective, productive, and positive manner
-   Excellent oral and written communication skills.
