+++
nid = "3162"
jid = "00181"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2012-06-15 11:51"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3162"
title = "Empirical Research Librarian"
employer = "Lillian Goldman Law Library, Yale University"
employerurl = "http://www.law.yale.edu/library/"
postdate = "2012-06-15"
archivedate = "2012-07-16"
draft = "false"
+++
REPRESENTATIVE JOB SUMMARY
Yale University librarians work in libraries across the Central, West,
Medical, and Science campuses, to build, manage, and provide access to a
rich and unique record of human thought and creativity. They demonstrate
flexibility, creativity, and imagination in their work and adapt to and
help shape a continuously evolving work environment. Yale librarians
provide consistently high quality service to the University, and help
meet the needs of the local, national, and international teaching and
research communities.
 
DEPARTMENTAL FOCUS/POSITION DESCRIPTION
Reporting to the Law Library Head of Technology Services within the
Reference and Instructional Services Department, the Empirical Research
Librarian leads the Law School in professional research, instruction,
and technical consulting services to Law School faculty, students, and
researchers who perform empirical research studies in law and
interdisciplinary fields.  Assists in data analysis including regression
analysis, data interpretation, and visual presentation. Selects and
acquires data resources in the law and related disciplines for use by
the Yale community.  Reviews licenses and contracts for appropriate
agreements, in cooperation with electronic resources staff as needed. 
Advises Technical Services staff on receiving acquired datasets and
preparing them for availability to users and on cataloging requirements
in the MORRIS catalog.
 
RESPONSIBILITIES
Provides consultation and instruction in the discovery, use, and
management of locally- and externally-available datasets.  Markets data
services to Law School community through the Library web site, word of
mouth, presentations, publications, and other media.  Responsible for
increasing available data resources and their visibility for potential
users through outreach efforts, including but not limited to, the
Library web site, department-based office hours, and workshops.  Updates
the library web sites to promote services, share resources, and support
technology services.  Collaborates with members of the University
community who work with data to develop scalable, sustainable, and
domain-appropriate data services in support of law and law-related
research at Yale. Represents the Yale Law Library to state, national,
and international data organizations.
 
Participates in research, instruction, program planning, and
implementation.  Collaborates with librarians, GIS specialists, and the
Center for Science and Social Science Information (CSSSI) staff.  The
Empirical Research Librarian is a member of the Law Library team and
participates in library programs and committees.
 
Participates in library planning committees and task forces and engages
in campus, regional, and national professional organizations and
collaborative activities. Expected to be professionally active and
represents the Library and the University in the academic, scholarly,
and professional community.  May be required to assist in disaster
recovery efforts.
 
REPRESENTATIVE RESPONSIBILITIES
1.      The Librarian 1 is the beginning rank and is expected to
demonstrate excellence in meeting the position responsibilities, as
defined by the job description and annual goals.
2.      Begin to fulfill the criteria for service to the library,
university, and/or community.
3.      Begin to fulfill the criteria for professional contributions.
4.      For a complete description of the position and department,
please see the department URL.
  
REQUIRED EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE
Master's degree in Library Science from an American Library Association
accredited Library school. In selected instances, a post-graduate degree
in a related discipline may be required or substituted for an MLS.
Appointment to this rank is limited to two years at which time it is
expected that the individual will develop necessary requirements to meet
expectations of performance at the Librarian 2 level.
 
REQUIRED SKILLS AND ABILITIES
 
Appointment to the rank of Librarian 2 requires at least two years
professional experience.  This rank is limited to three years at which
time it is expected that the individual will develop necessary
requirements to meet expectations of performance at the Librarian 3
level. Knowledge of the concepts, pedagogy, research, and scholarly
trends in empirical research. Ability to communicate effectively with
faculty and students about textual, numeric, and spatial data resources.
Knowledge of mapping and spatial analysis and software such as ArcGIS.
Familiarity with statistical data analysis including regression
analysis, data visualization, and one or more software applications such
as R, Stata, and SPSS.  Familiarity with data archiving procedures. 
Familiarity with principles of database design and programs such as
Microsoft Access and SQL.  Excellent analytical, organizational,
management, oral and written communications, and interpersonal skills.  
Strong public service orientation. Demonstrated ability to work
collegially and cooperatively within and across organizations. Ability
to work independently with varied user groups in a complex organization
and function collaboratively in a rapidly changing team environment. 
Demonstrated record of designing projects and bringing them to a
conclusion in a timely fashion.
 
PREFERRED EDUCATION, EXPERIENCE AND SKILLS:
Graduate degree in a related field (computer science, information
management, etc.) may be substituted for an ALA-accredited Master's
degree in a program for library and information science (or foreign
equivalent outside of the US).  Experience with data scraping techniques
and programs. Familiarity with common data documentation and metadata
standards such as DDI. Familiarity with HTML/XML and one or more
programming languages. Experience with database design.
