+++
nid = "3055"
jid = "00160"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2012-02-23 09:28"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3055"
title = "Data Librarian "
employer = " Bodleian Libraries, Oxford"
employerurl = "http://www.bodleian.ox.ac.uk/bodley"
postdate = "2012-02-23"
archivedate = "2012-02-29"
draft = "false"
+++
This 9 month post will be primarily dedicated to the Digital.Bodleian
project, a JISC-funded project that aims to aggregate and open up,
through both a graphical user interface and through open linked data,
the Bodleian Library's substantial collection of digital assets. You
will be a member of the team within Bodleian Digital Library Systems and
Services (BDLSS) that works with the applications and content in our
Digital Asset Management System. You will work closely with the Imaging
Systems Developer and the DAMS Developers to help support and organise
the contents of the DAMS.

You will work with the imaging systems developer, metadata specialist,
and other technical staff to gather together images and metadata from a
range of existing Bodleian systems, standardise the images and metadata,
and ingest this content into new storage, and the resource discovery
system running on top of this storage. You may also be asked to perform
other technically similar tasks within existing workflows.

  
You will need to be familiar with Windows and Unix file systems, at
least at the level of file copying/moving/renaming on a large scale, and
with the running of simple shell scripts and Windows batch files. You
should also be familiar with databases and with XML, as well as
possessing a working knowledge of existing library catalogue resources,
bibliographic metadata and metadata standards. You will have good
qualifications and/or experience working with metadata on a large scale
and in an IT-related environment.
Only applications received before midday on Monday 27 February 2012 can
be considered. Interviews will be held on Tuesday 6 March. You will be
required to upload a supporting statement as part of your online
application.

