+++
nid = "3216"
jid = "00191"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2012-08-31 13:27"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3216"
title = "Academic Technology Specialist"
employer = "New York University"
employerurl = "http://www.nyu.edu/"
postdate = "2012-08-31"
archivedate = "2012-09-30"
draft = "false"
+++
Provide client service, technical knowledge, technical development and
communications expertise in support of state-of-the-art computer
technology used by faculty and researchers for teaching and research.
Advise and consult with faculty and researchers in the design,
development, and implementation of information technology services for
teaching and research. Provide technical support to faculty and
researchers in curriculum and research development Develop and deliver
training programs including conducting seminars, training sessions, and
workshops.  

  
-   Required Education: Bachelor's degree  
-   Preferred Education: Master's degree or higher, preferably in
    Sociology, Economics, Statistics, Mathematics, Political Science,
    Psychology, Urban Planning, or related field  
-   Required Experience: 3 years relevant experience or an equivalent
    combination. Must include experience supporting information
    technology, training, programming and client service.  
-   Preferred Experience: Experience in an academic environment.  
-   Required Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: Excellent leadership,
    interpersonal, organizational, analytical, problem solving, and
    communication skills. Ability to train and provide technical advice
    to a non-technical audience. 1-3 years experience conducting
    quantitative academic research with 1 or more of the following:
    Stata, SPSS, SAS, R, Matlab  
-   Preferred Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: Experience teaching
    quantitative software packages and/or research methods. Familiarity
    with software packages for survey research (Qualtrics or Remark
    OMR), qualitative data analysis (ATLAS.ti or NVivo) or geographic
    information systems (ArcGIS or GRASS). Knowledge of computer science
    concepts including data structures and algorithms; experience
    programming with Python, Julia, C or C++.
