+++
nid = "3443"
jid = "00218"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-07-18 10:51"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3443"
title = "Metadata Analyst"
employer = "Robert W. Woodruff Library, Emory University"
employerurl = "http://web.library.emory.edu"
postdate = "2013-07-18"
archivedate = "2013-08-31"
draft = "false"
+++
﻿The Emory University Libraries seek an energetic, service-oriented and
collaborative professional to serve as the Metadata Analyst for the
Content Division in the Robert W. Woodruff Library. The ideal candidate
will support initiatives that relate to digital scholarship,
digitization, special collections access, and other metadata-dependent
efforts to describe, manage, expose and share collections with users.

**Position Summary**
Reporting to the Senior Director of the Content Division, the Metadata
Analyst supports initiatives that relate to digital scholarship,
digitization, special collections access, and other metadata-dependent
efforts to describe, manage, expose and share collections with users.
Acting as an individual contributor, the incumbent may alternately lead
projects or serve as a member of a project team and provide metadata
expertise. The Metadata Analyst will interact with curators, archivists,
librarians, technologists, researchers and students to learn about and
deliver metadata solutions for projects and programs. The Metadata
Analyst focuses on creating and normalizing metadata, optimizing the
interoperability of metadata among systems, and leveraging metadata to
increase discoverability and use of collections and monitors emerging
technologies and recommends their adoption if they meet project or
long-term organizational goals. Specific duties of the incumbent
include:


-   Provides and anticipates metadata solutions for a wide variety
    projects, services, and stakeholders, chiefly in special
    collections, digital scholarship, and IT units.
-   Identifies, designs, and develops schemas, ontologies, taxonomies,
    vocabularies, etc. for images, sound, video, text, realia, graphics,
    data, geospatial data, etc.
-   Prototypes and develops automated services and applications for
    metadata extraction, creation, normalization, analysis,
    transformation, syndication, and ingest.
-   Integrates semantic, linked data, and other metadata analytical
    technologies with various existing digital asset management and
    discovery platforms.
-   Contributes to research and development of other metadata projects
    and initiatives.
-   Develops training and documentation in support of metadata encoding
    and transformation for metadata librarians and catalogers.
-   Shares results of work with other staff through presentation and
    written documentation.
-   Facilitates meetings to learn about needs and to develop agreement
    and consensus.
-   Acts as chair of the University Libraries Metadata Working Group
    (MWG), providing leadership and direction developing and
    implementing best practices for metadata creation and management
    across the Emory Libraries.
-   Schedules meetings and sets agendas. Builds consensus through dialog
    and group problem-solving, working with individuals and groups, to
    reach agreement.
-   Provides updates to Library Cabinet, the senior management group.
-   Oversees and guides the work of the Cataloging and Authorities
    Working Group, a subgroup of the University Libraries Metadata
    Working Group, which includes the cataloging department heads from
    all Emory University libraries.
  
-   ﻿ALA-accredited master's degree in Library and Information Science
    OR equivalent education and experience (subject expertise combined
    with appropriate industry experience and/or library experience).
-   Knowledge of basic administration, management and automation of
    various Content Management Systems and installed software packages.
-   Technical expertise including:

1.  2+ years related experience with metadata schemas, XML, and XSLT.
2.  Knowledge of Semantic Web technologies (RDF, RDFS, OWL, SPARQL).
3.  Familiarity with semantic web W3C standards and ongoing efforts.
4.  Experience with Internet architecture and services, including HTTP,
    HTML, Web Services, JSON, JavaScript, and AJAX techniques.
5.  Experience coding in a scripting language, such as PHP, Python, or
    Ruby.
6.  Experience with database technologies and retrieval systems, such as
    Oracle, SQL Server, Postgres.
7.  Experience working with APIs and in Linux/Unix server environments.

-   Ability to build and sustain effective interpersonal relationships
    with library staff, faculty and students, off campus faculty and
    administrators, campus administrators, etc.; ability to work
    productively on cross-cultural teams.
-   Evidence of analytical, organizational, communication, project, and
    time management skills and demonstrated ability to set priorities,
    meet deadlines, and complete tasks and projects on time and within
    budget and in accordance with task/project parameters.
-   Capacity to respond effectively to changing needs and priorities.
-   Demonstrated proficiency and capabilities with personal computers
    and software, the Web, and library-relevant information technology
    applications. Working knowledge of standard computer office
    applications such as Microsoft Outlook, Word, Excel, Access,
    PowerPoint or other productivity software.
-   Demonstrated knowledge of current trends and issues in academic
    libraries or higher education.
-   Commitment to fostering a diverse educational environment and
    workplace and an ability to work effectively with a diverse faculty
    and student population.
-   Evidence of active participation, involvement, and leadership in
    local, state, regional, national, or international professional or
    scholarly associations.


Preferred Qualifications

-   Bachelor's degree or extensive coursework in in computer science or
    related field.
-   At least 2 years of professional experience working with metadata in
    an academic library setting.
-   Experience with Ex Libris products (Primo, Aleph, Metalib, SFX).

Knowledge of library technology protocols such as OpenURL, OAI-PMH, and
Z39.50.
