+++
nid = "3471"
jid = "00232"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-11-19 13:24"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3471"
title = "Data Research Librarian"
employer = "Florida State University Libraries"
employerurl = "http://www.lib.fsu.edu/"
postdate = "2013-11-12"
archivedate = "2013-11-30"
draft = "false"
+++
Florida State University Libraries seeks an energetic and innovative
librarian to facilitate access to and use of data collections and to
provide services to data users, focusing initially on the social
sciences. The Data Research Librarian will be responsible for developing
and providing consultative, instructional, and outreach services to
faculty and students using data and for selecting data resources. This
position will work closely with the government documents Librarian,
technology staff, and subject librarians to develop a complementary
suite of data collections and services.

Responsibilities:

-   Provide specialized consultations, instruction, and outreach to
    support the use of data resources by faculty and students.
-   Identify, locate, select, acquire, and provide access to data
    resources.
-   Create LibGuides, Web pages or other materials to provide
    information about and access to data sources.
-   Market the use of data services to faculty and students.
-   Develop professional development opportunities and support program
    for liaison librarians to enable effective data consultation
    services.
-   Work with liaison librarians to identify and provide access to
    acquired data sets that serve the university's research and
    teaching missions.
-   Contribute to the development of research data management services.
-   Work collaboratively with technology staff and the Scholarly
    Communication Librarian to develop a campus-wide program to assist
    faculty in managing, preserving, and providing access to data.
-   Serve as a liaison to Economics, Geography, and Statistics
    Departments.
-   Participate in general in-person and virtual reference and
    instructional services.

 
  
Required:

-   Master's degree in library and information science from a program
    accredited by the American Library Association or other relevant
    master's degree.
-   Experience working with data sets and knowledge of research
    practices relating to data.
-   Experience with using statistical software (SPSS, Stata, SAS).
-   Demonstrated subject knowledge and experience in social sciences,
    including understanding of issues related to social sciences
    research, scholarly publishing, and data research.
-   Familiarity with data management requirements of federal agencies
    and of national and international trends in data management.
-   Demonstrated experience in supervising staff and coordinating
    workflows.
-   Strong grasp of current issues, trends, and technologies impacting
    higher education and academic libraries.
-   Ability to plan, coordinate, and implement effective programs,
    complex projects, and services.
-   Creative and analytical thinking skills and good problem solving
    ability.
-   Excellent communication skills.
-   Ability to work independently and as a member of a group in a
    changing environment.
-   Ability to meet the library's requirement for scholarship, service,
    and leadership.

Preferred:

-   Minimum of two years professional experience in an academic or
    research library.
-   Experience writing, obtaining, and managing grants.
-   Experience developing data management plans.
-   A second advanced degree, preferably in a data-oriented social
    science field.
-   Experience with text mining or analysis.
-   Experience with institutional or subject repository systems.
-   Experience with Geographic Information Systems (GIS).
