+++
nid = "3461"
jid = "00226"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-10-02 11:13"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3461"
title = "Project Manager, Office of the Chief Data Officer"
employer = "Federal Reserve Board"
employerurl = "http://www.federalreserve.gov"
postdate = "2013-10-02"
archivedate = "2013-10-15"
draft = "false"
+++
The Office of the Chief Data Officer (OCDO) is responsible for the
strategy and oversight of data governance, data management and data
management technology in support of the Board's missions and strategic
framework. The OCDO Project Manager (PM) manages a broad range of
activities dealing with the most complex, sensitive, and conceptual
issues relating to Data Management (DM) functions. PM has overall
responsibility for the implementation of Board-wide new strategic data
management initiatives and/or significantly enhanced data management
programs and services. PM supports both the start-up of the OCDO and
strategic and tactical DM projects. PM may serve on division, Board, and
FR System committees and ad hoc task forces and manages multiple
projects simultaneously in a fast-paced, high-visibility environment.
  
Requires strong project management, communications, and analytical
skills typically acquired through the completion of a bachelor s degree
in management, business administration or related discipline or
equivalent experience. Requires 8 years experience with progressively
complex project management responsibilities, including managing projects
with budgets of over $1 million.  PMP or similar certification
required. Proven experience in leveraging the DM-BOK for DM projects in
a highly complex environment. Quickly learns and assimilates complex
technical and business requirement information with the ability to apply
this knowledge in solving customer business problems. Is an excellent
communicator who can work well with clients remotely. Must possess
clear, concise and effective verbal and written communication, including
the ability to effectively communicate with technical personnel,
business customers, and management. Demonstrated ability to handle
multiple tasks, competing priorities, and challenging situations
professionally, as well as strong leadership and project management
skills in managing staff and projects. Can promptly and efficiently
conform to shifting priorities, project adjustments, demands and
timelines through analytical and problem-solving capabilities.
Understands how to mitigate project and application risk. Demonstrated
commitment to a strong customer service philosophy required.

The Office of the Chief Data Officer (OCDO) is a new office within the
Office of the Chief Operating Officer of the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System.  The OCDO is seeking an experienced project
manager to join our team to manage high-profile data management related
projects.

The ideal candidate is a creative, out-of-the-box thinker with a desire
to develop innovative, leading edge solutions and a passion for data
management and related topics.  Has an eye towards process improvement
and efficiency and is not satisfied until feels the expectations of
clients and stakeholders are exceeded.
