+++
nid = "3375"
jid = "00200"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-02-08 13:17"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3375"
title = "Director, Research Data Curation Services"
employer = "University of California, San Diego"
employerurl = "http://www.ucsd.edu/"
postdate = "2013-01-31"
archivedate = "2013-03-31"
draft = "false"
+++
The Research Data Curation Services program is responsible for
strategically developing and building research data curation services in
support of UC San Diego's researchers' needs to manage, preserve, and
provide access to their data sets.

Program activities include:

1.  Provision of Data Management Plan support services, in collaboration
    with the Library's Academic Liaison Services program.
2.  Design, development, and maintenance of the technical infrastructure
    needed to support research data curation and access services, in
    collaboration with the Library's Information Technology Services
    program, the San Diego Supercomputer Center (SDSC), and the UC
    Curation Center (UC3).
3.  Design, development, and maintenance of data curation processes,
    procedures, and policies.
4.  Establishment of effective and efficient data curation mechanisms to
    assist researchers.
5.  Creation of a framework for the effective and ongoing collaboration
    with the San Diego Supercomputer Center (SDSC), the campus Research
    Cyberinfrastructure (RCI) team, and the UC Curation Center (UC3).

Responsibilities of the Position

Reporting to the Associate University Librarian for Collection Services,
the Director, Research Data Curation Services, provides vision,
leadership, and management, and strategic planning for all programmatic,
administrative, and operational activities for the UC San Diego
Library's Research Data Curation Services program.  This position is
part of the Library's Program Directors Group that works in close
concert with senior management.

1.  In consultation with other library staff and the AUL, Collection
    Services, provide leadership in the development and implementation
    of the service program; initial emphasis will be on planning;
    research; identifying program objectives and scope; formulation of
    program goals, policies, and processes; identifying staffing,
    operational, and resource needs; and implementation.
2.  Identify strategies for understanding the evolving research data
    curation needs of UC San Diego's researchers.
3.  Plan and manage the development of the technical infrastructure in
    coordination with the San Diego Supercomputer Center (SDSC), the
    campus Research Cyberinfrastructure (RCI) team, and the UC Curation
    Center (UC3).
4.  Ensure cross-program coordination and management of staff involved
    in the implementation and delivery of research data curation
    services, in particular between this program and the Library's
    Academic Liaison Services and Information Technology Services
    programs.
5.  Lead and manage all staff allocated to research data curation
    services.
6.  Serve as a supervisor to academic and/or staff employees including
    hiring, evaluating, training, and developing direct and indirect
    reports.
7.  Perform staffing, budget and resource analysis
8.  Evolve and modify program scope, services, procedures, and practices
    consistent with the goals and mission of the Library and in response
    to program evaluation and assessment, changes in user needs, and
    changes in available resources
9.  Collaborate with other Library programs to fulfill the program's
    mission and carry out program activities, in particular, the Digital
    Library, Academic Liaisons, and Technology Services programs.
10. Collaborate with other Library programs to help them fulfill their
    program mission and carry out program activities.

Librarians at UC San Diego are academic appointees and entitled to
appropriate professional leave and all other perquisites granted to
non-faculty academic personnel.  UC San Diego librarians are expected to
participate in library-wide and system-wide planning and governance and
to be professionally active.
  
Required:

1.  Professional degree from a library school or other appropriate
    degree or equivalent experience in one or more fields related to
    library services.
2.  Ability to work effectively in a rapidly evolving environment with a
    high degree of ambiguity.
3.  Ability to provide effective leadership in a diverse and changing
    environment.
4.  Ability to operate effectively with a high level of independence and
    display a high degree of initiative in the delivery and
    implementation of strategies and priorities.
5.  Superior communication and interpersonal skills; ability to present
    and share ideas clearly and effectively.
6.  Strong organizational, analytical, persuasion/negotiation,
    decision-making, and problem-solving skills.
7.  Ability to build consensus and promote productive cooperation and
    teamwork.
8.  Supervisory or team leadership experience; skills to effectively
    direct, coach, and motivate staff.
9.  Excellent leadership and management skills; strong commitment to
    fostering growth and development of others.
10. Ability and experience in leading a group of staff engaged in the
    development, implementation, maintenance and support of research
    data curation services.
11. Broad knowledge of user-focused library technologies, services and
    tools and best practices in research data curation.
12. Leadership in data curation support service, and researcher-focused
    technologies, services and tools.
13. Experience in identifying information needs of researchers and in
    creating effective services to address them.

Desired:

1.  Experience in operational and strategic planning for library
    resources and services.
2.  Experience with project management, including planning,
    communication, and assessment.
3.  Experience managing budget lines.
