+++
nid = "3372"
jid = "00198"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-02-05 14:12"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3372"
title = "Chemistry & Physics Librarian"
employer = "Rutgers University Libraries"
employerurl = "http://www.libraries.rutgers.edu/"
postdate = "2013-01-23"
archivedate = "2013-02-28"
draft = "false"
+++
RESPONSIBILITIES: The Rutgers University Libraries seeks an innovative,
service-oriented, and technology-savvy librarian to serve as liaison to
the Rutgers chemistry, physics and astronomy communities. The Chemistry
& Physics Librarian will:

-   Actively engage with the chemistry, physics and astronomy
    communities to understand their needs and to provide relevant
    collections and services in support of their research and
    educational missions,
-   Coordinate efforts, identify opportunities, and develop services to
    access and preserve scientific data, and participate in the
    Libraries' science and RUresearch data teams, and
-   Participate in public services activities including general and
    subject-specific instruction and in-person and virtual reference.

The candidate should be knowledgeable about current and emerging issues
in science librarianship and scholarly communication and possess the
ability to apply new technologies to a broad range of library
applications. This tenure track position reports to the Associate
University Librarian for Research & Instructional Services, is a member
of the New Brunswick Libraries Faculty, and is based at the Library of
Science & Medicine. The successful candidate must demonstrate a
commitment to continual professional development through scholarly
research including publications, presentations and participation and
leadership in the work of relevant professional associations.

  
 A Master's degree in Library or Information Sciences from an
ALA-accredited institution and demonstrated ability to work with the
scientific research community are required. Bachelor's or advanced
degree in chemistry, physics, or a related science is needed. Experience
with data management, proficiency with SciFinder Scholar and Reaxys
databases, working knowledge of chemical structure searching, and
several years of professional experience are preferred. The successful
candidate must have excellent communication skills and the ability to
work both independently and in a collegial environment. Demonstrated
commitment to fostering diversity as an organizational priority is
required. Candidates who have had successful experience in the design
and delivery of services for diverse populations will be given
preference. The successful candidate must be eligible to work in the
U.S.
