+++
nid = "3366"
jid = "00194"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-01-08 15:03"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3366"
title = "Chief, Economic Data Management Analysis"
employer = "Federal Reserve Board"
employerurl = "http://www.federalreserve.gov/"
postdate = "2013-01-08"
archivedate = "2013-01-08"
draft = "false"
+++
[The Chief of the Economic Data Management Analysis Section manages
staff engaged in the management, delivery, and curation of both
time-series (aggregate) and cross-sectional (micro-level) data.  The
staff are experts in ETL (extract, transform, load) procedures and
provide content-oriented support for a variety of data types. The chief
coordinates data management activities with other divisions and may
represent the division or the Board with outside groups in the private
and public sectors. ]{.pc-rtg-body}
  
Candidates must demonstrate a thorough understanding of data management
and research support methods and strategies, and the ability to direct
staff, set priorities, and assess staff performance. Position requires
excellent written and oral communications skills; excellent
organizational, time management, customer service and problem-solving
skills; and the ability to work well with others at all levels of the
organization, in both one-on-one and group situations. A firm grasp of
the economic and financial concepts measured by the data the section
manages is preferred. Basic understanding of the technologies used by
researchers as well as those used to manage and disseminate data is
preferred.

Responsible for supervising data content experts and technology staff
charged with undertaking data management to support research and
analysis both in the Division of Research and Statistics and across the
economics functions at the Board more broadly. Coordinates data
acquisition, management, and dissemination activities with other
divisions and represents the division or the Board in interactions with
other divisions, Reserve Banks, and outside groups in the private and
public sectors. Responsibilities include administration of the section;
planning the section's program; directing the flow and substance of
work; supervising and coaching a group manager; and preparing and
reviewing communications related to data activities.
