+++
nid = "3473"
jid = "00243"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-11-20 15:30"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3473"
title = "REPOSTED Feb 5: Program Director, Science, Engineering, Social Science, and Business Research Services"
employer = "Hesburgh Libraries, University of Notre Dame"
employerurl = "http://library.nd.edu/"
postdate = "2013-12-22"
archivedate = "2014-03-31"
draft = "false"
+++
The Hesburgh Libraries at the University of Notre Dame seek a talented
and dynamic individual to direct library initiatives related to our
science, engineering, social science, and business academic programs. In
the fall of 2012, the Hesburgh Libraries underwent an organizational
redesign combining our various library departments and branches into six
programs, each administered by a program director. The program directors
and the library central administration constitute the Library Cabinet,
which is a policy making body that meets weekly. The Science,
Engineering, Social Science, and Business Research Services Program is
organized into two teams or units, with the science and engineering
librarians being in one team and the social science and business
librarians in the other team. Each team is managed by a unit head
reporting to the program director.

There are four major and two smaller branch libraries within the
program. Notre Dame is aggressively expanding our science and
engineering programs with over $200,000,000 in new funding to the
academic departments for positions and buildings being allocated during
the next five years, focusing on expanding chemical and biochemical
engineering, computational and data engineering, advanced circuits,
computational math, topology and quantum field theory, nuclear physics,
bioinformatics, and the molecular life sciences. We also continue to
maintain excellence in the Mendoza College of Business, ranked no. 1
among undergraduate business programs and are expanding the social
sciences within the College of Arts and Letters.

RESPONSIBILITIES:

The program director leads, shapes and transforms the mission of the
Science, Engineering, Social Science and Business Research Services
Program (abbreviated SESSB). The director optimizes the roles of
individual contributors to position the libraries to meet the changing
demands of scholarship and research. He or she will be a sponsor and
owner for designing and overseeing a wide range of strategic initiatives
that enrich both collections and library services and support
educational experiences and intellectual growth throughout the campus.
The director will foster collaborations with faculty and students,
support diverse methods of acquisitions and access to a variety of
materials including datasets, encourage open access initiatives, and
foster digital scholarship and services. In collaboration with the
librarians and staff in the program, the director will further
strengthen our partnerships with departments, programs, institutes and
centers in the disciplines of science, engineering, social science and
business to both enhance teaching and learning and develop new
initiatives supporting the full cycle of research and scholarly
exchange. The position has responsibility for collaboration and the
building of strong relationships with internal and external
stakeholders, thereby supporting and advancing the university goal to be
a premier research institution. The director works closely with the
other library programs responsible for specialized services including:
the Academic Outreach and Engagement Program, the Arts and Humanities
Research Services Program, the Digital Library Initiatives and
Scholarship Program, the Information Technology and Discovery Services
Program, and the Resource and Acquisitions Delivery Services Program.
The SESSB director reports to the Associate University Librarian for
Research Services and Collections.
  
Either an advanced degree in a field of science, engineering
informatics, or data science or an MLS and a minimum of five years of
relevant experience as a subject specialist in one of these areas.
Evidence of creative and results-oriented approaches to organizational
design and evidence of leading transformational change. Evidence of
successful management and supervisory responsibility as well as
excellent verbal and written communication skills. A demonstrated
ability to work across organizational boundaries, lead effective teams,
manage change, negotiate differences and mentor colleagues. Also,
although not required, experience applying for grants or participating
in grant-funded research is strongly preferred.
