+++
nid = "3482"
jid = "00236"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-12-12 12:49"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3482"
title = "Communications and Public Engagement Manager"
employer = "U.K. Data Archive (at University of Essex)"
employerurl = "http://www.data-archive.ac.uk/"
postdate = "2013-12-12"
archivedate = "2014-01-03"
draft = "false"
+++
The Administrative Data Service (ADS) is part of the Administrative Data
Research Network, a highly innovative new infrastructure to facilitate
linkage and analysis of routinely collected administrative data for
research purposes. The ADS will act as the coordinating body for the
Network, setting standards and acting as a first point of contact for
all stakeholders. The ADRN was announced by the Minister for
Universities and Science, David Willetts MP, on the 10th October and
forms part of a major new government investment in 'Big Data'. Because
of potential public concerns surrounding the ethical use of personal
data in research, communications and public engagement will be a key
area of activity for the Network.

The ADS is seeking to appoint a highly motivated Communications and
Public Engagement Manager to be responsible for coordinating the
Communications and Public Engagement activities of the whole of the
ADRN, in addition to managing and overseeing the communications and
public engagement activities undertaken by the ADS. The successful
candidate will manage a team of three at Essex, and will liaise with
staff across the 4 national Administrative Data Research Centres (ADRCs)
and the ESRC to develop the Comms/PE Strategy for the Network, and
oversee its implementation.
Among other skills and experience the successful candidate will have
specialist expertise of a wide range of activities, methodologies and
practices (including interdisciplinary) in the area communications and
public engagement. S/he will have a knowledge of the wider landscape on
communications and publishing within the academic and/or public sector
environment, and will have experience setting priorities and managing
projects, staff planning, budgets, resources and time.
This post involves access to Government systems, information or data and
will be subject to the staff vetting process. Further information can
found in the Recruitment Pack.

This is a full time, fixed-term position until September 2018. The UK
Data Archive is ISO 27001, certified for Information Security
Management.

Duties:

-   Research and plan an effective communications and public engagement
    strategy for the whole of the Administrative Data Research Network,
    in conjunction with Communications/Public Engagement leaders from
    the Administrative Data Research Centres in England, Wales, Scotland
    and Northern Ireland.
-   Create an implementation plan for communications/public engagement
    strategy and oversee and manage its implementation within the ADS.
-   Oversee and manage all communications/public engagement activities
    for the service, including but not limited to the network website,
    publications, promotional and educational events, and public
    engagement events and activities.
-   Coordinate all communications/public engagement activities across
    the 4 ADRCs to maximise synergies, minimise overlap, and ensure
    consistency of approach and philosophy. Head the cross-centre
    communications/public engagement working group.
-   Develop and manage the service's Impact Strategy, in conjunction
    with the senior management team.
-   Manage the relationship with external design and branding teams to
    develop the network brand, and work with the cross-centre
    communications/public engagement working group to ensure its
    reliable implementation.
-   Line manage the communications/public engagement team and set their
    working agenda.
-   Liaise with high level external stakeholders (government
    departments, UK Statistics Authority, senior researchers and
    funders) over communications and public engagement strategies,
    plans, and activities.
-   Provide day to day, operational service management within the
    Communications & Public Engagement section.
-   Undertake line management responsibilities for staff in the
    Communications & Public Engagement section including but not
    exclusively: appraisal and performance management; managing and
    monitoring staff attendance and the achievement of contractual
    goals, including the analysis of key management information.
-   Support senior staff in all aspects of the recruitment process, e.g.
    preparing job descriptions, chairing and participating in interview
    panels.
-   Be responsible for section procedures; and for ensuring that staff
    in the section are familiar with basic security awareness;
    understand the need for accurate records management; and adhere to
    University and UK Data Service procedures.
-   Manage and participate in projects; represent the section at
    management and other meetings; contribute actively to information
    exchange within the section and between other sections and service
    partners.
-   Undertake a minimum of one information exchange activity (e.g.
    conference or training presentation; blog or other publication)
    annually. Engage with the Service/Department planning activities.
-   Any other duties required by the Director or his/her nominee.
  
-   Graduate Degree or equivalent.
-   Specialist expertise of a wide range of activities, methodologies
    and practices (including interdisciplinary) in the area
    communications and public engagement.
-   Knowledge of the wider landscape on communications and publishing
    within the academic and/or public sector environment.
-   Experience with designing public engagement strategies and
    activities.
-   Experience of managing a small team.
-   Experience of presenting to a wide range of audiences.
-   Experience setting priorities and managing projects, staff planning,
    budgets, resources and time.
-   Experience coordinating work across different partner
    institutions/organisations
-   Proficiency and experience in authoring and editing articles in
    English.
-   Computer literate, specifically with Microsoft packages.
-   Willingness to keep up to date with ongoing developments within
    communications and technology.
-   Ability to communicate in a persuasive way to a wide range of
    audiences.
-   Ability to represent the organisation in a highly professional
    manner.
-   A pro-active approach to work.
-   Able to travel in the UK when required on a regular basis.
-   Can meet the requirements of UK 'right to work' legislation.
-   Can fulfil the staff vetting procedure for Government contracts (see
    general information for more details)
