+++
nid = "3462"
jid = "00227"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-10-02 12:07"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3462"
title = "Executive Director of EUROMOD"
employer = "Institute for Social & Economic Research, University of Essex"
employerurl = "https://www.iser.essex.ac.uk/euromod"
postdate = "2013-10-02"
archivedate = "2013-10-18"
draft = "false"
+++
This is a new, senior post aiming to strengthen the management and
leadership of EUROMOD as the project enters a new and exciting phase of
development and expansion. It will involve:

-   Project management and providing organisational leadership to ensure
    that core goals are delivered effectively, and
-   Working in collaboration with the EUROMOD Director to shape
    EUROMOD's future direction organisationally, financially,
    scientifically and in terms of the policy impact that it achieves.

EUROMOD is the tax-benefit microsimulation model for European Union
covering all 27 member states, and based on household microdata from the
Eurostat's European Union Statistics on Income and Living Conditions
(EU-SILC). It is designed for consistent and comparable cross-country
analysis of the effects of tax-benefit policies, and policy reforms, on
national budgets, the distribution of household incomes and work
incentives. It can be used to evaluate the effectiveness of current
policies, to explore the implications of change to policies or economic
conditions, or to design new policies with particular goals. Results may
be evaluated for individual countries on their own or in comparison with
each other, for the EU as a whole or any sub-group of countries. EUROMOD
is unique in two respects: covering many countries and being generally
accessible to all not-for-profit researchers. It is often said to be the
most-used microsimulation model in the world.

EUROMOD is a research tool built and maintained with the highest of
academic standards for carrying out quantitative analysis on
policy-relevant topics. Bridging academic enquiry and the analytical
needs of policy-makers, it has the potential to bring the two
communities closer together, especially as analysis using EUROMOD
becomes increasingly recognised and respected in each of them. It is now
extensively used and appreciated by policy directorates of the European
Commission and other international organisations as well as some
national governments. DG-EMPL, which currently provides financial
support for EUROMOD's development, has recently expressed a desire to
"embed" EUROMOD in its activities in the longer-term.This is an
opportunity to take a leading role in shaping the future of a major
international social science infrastructure project that has huge
potential to make an impact on policy-making in Europe over the long
term.

EUROMOD is maintained, updated and developed by ISER researchers in
collaboration with national teams in each EU member state. The model
requires updating each year, in terms of the tax-benefit policies that
are modelled, input micro-data and documentation. Each revision is
tested before being released to external users. There is also an ongoing
programme of improvements and extension in scope and comparability. This
work is currently funded by DG-EMPL of the European Commission. Other
grants fund our own research using EUROMOD and some specific
developments and extensions to the model, including spin-off models for
non-EU countries. For more information see
https://www.iser.essex.ac.uk/euromod

The ISER EUROMOD team currently consists of the EUROMOD Director, nine
researchers (economists and sociologists) and a coordination assistant,
as well as drawing on inputs from ISER communications, IT and
administrative staff. They all work on multiple tasks and projects but
need to coordinate and cooperate as a team on a regular basis. The
researchers each take responsibility for the updating and development of
a few countries as well as cross-cutting technical work ensuring
comparability across countries, applications of the model and their own
research, both using EUROMOD and independent of it. The current
organisational structure is based on a monthly project meeting which
tracks progress and considers issues affecting the project as a whole.
An annual meeting with the national teams (about 80 people) is organised
in a different member state each year.

This new post does not involve formal teaching or the requirement to
publish academic research. Instead the person appointed will be
responsible for the efficient and effective running of the EUROMOD
research infrastructure, leaving the EUROMOD Director more time to
concentrate on leading research activities.

Duties will include:

1.  Responsibility for the project management of EUROMOD maintenance,
    updating, development and dissemination to users. In more detail,
    this includes
    1.  Implementation of the annual work programme, involving agreement
        of sub-contracts with 30+ national teams and technical experts
    2.  Efficient/effective delivery of project deliverables to the
        desired standard
    3.  Managing relationships with external EUROMOD users, including
        their access to EU-SILC data via arrangements with Eurostat;
        coordination of the annual release and dissemination of the
        model as well as oversight of promotion and organising of
        training.
2.  Responsibility for coordinating the dissemination and communication
    of EUROMOD and related projects including web content, newsletter,
    brochures, events etc. [in conjunction with ISER communications and
    IT staff].
3.  Oversight of budgets and expenditure on staff and non-staff
    resources [in conjunction with ISER administrative staff].
4.  Development of systems for monitoring the use of EUROMOD and impact
    of EUROMOD research.
5.  A key role in devising, bidding for, negotiating and managing new
    projects.
6.  Deputising for the Director of EUROMOD e.g. in presenting the
    project to policy-maker and other stake-holder audiences.
7.  Making a major contribution to developing a vision for EUROMOD's
    longer-term future at the interface between academic research and
    policy-making, and seeing it through the necessary forthcoming
    transitions.

 The post-holder will participate, like all ISER staff members, in
various institute-level activities appropriate to their seniority.

Terms of Appointment: For a full description of the terms of appointment
for this post please visit:
http://www.essex.ac.uk/personnel/CondServ/default.htm
  
Qualifications /Training

Essential

-   Educational qualifications to at least first degree standard.
-   Significant experience of managing a complex long-term project with
    multiple goals and stakeholders within a research or public policy
    environment.
-   Experience of reporting progress against objectives both verbally
    and in writing
-   Experience/knowledge of social science research
-   Experience of financial management and of managing budgets
-   A capacity to appreciate the main aspects of EUROMOD's (a)
    analytical capabilities and (b) technical maintenance and
    development requirements, in order to be able to manage activities
    related to these effectively and to be able to present the project
    to external audiences.
-   A pro-active and flexible approach to managing a complex, unique and
    fast-developing project.
-   A portfolio of project management skills, both formal and more
    broadly defined.
-   An ability to make high-level presentations to stakeholders
-   An understanding of relevant social science research processes and
    the analytical needs of fiscal and social policy-makers.
-   Excellent verbal, visual and written communication skills for a wide
    range of contexts.X Practiced diplomatic and networking skills
-   A very high standard of written and spoken English
-   Willingness to travel within the EU on a frequent basis

Desirable

-   A relevant higher degree, MBA or equivalent.
-   Experience/knowledge of quantitative social science research
    including the use of large-scale micro-data
-   Experience/knowledge of statistical software/programming
-   An interest in policy and processes in the European Union and/or an
    understanding of the pathways to impact agenda.
