+++
nid = "3465"
jid = "00230"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-10-08 11:17"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3465"
title = "Research Services Librarian"
employer = "University of Manitoba Libraries"
employerurl = "http://umanitoba.ca/libraries/"
postdate = "2013-10-08"
archivedate = "2013-10-31"
draft = "false"
+++
A: Role and Objectives of the Unit:

The Services to Libraries Units, Discovery & Delivery Services and
Collections & External Relations, provide support to the unit libraries,
including collections management, technical services, digital services,
document delivery, circulation policy, usability/assessment, and library
systems.

B. Functions:

The Research Services Librarian is responsible for supporting the
Libraries' contribution to two University-wide functions: scholarly
communication and data management services.

-   Develops a strategy for the Libraries to support the data management
    needs of the University of Manitoba faculty and students.
-   Develops a strategy for the Libraries to support the scholarly
    communication needs of the University of Manitoba faculty and
    students.
-   Administers the Libraries' Open Access Authors' Fund.
-   Actively participates in library and university-wide initiatives,
    committees, and task forces to develop and design sustainable
    infrastructure, technology and services to support research data
    management, curation, and access throughout all of the research and
    data lifecycles stages.
-   Partners with others in UML, campus units, and at other universities
    on research data management and scholarly communication initiatives
    that support researcher needs in evolving research and scholarly
    environments.
-   Collaborates with liaison librarians to assist faculty, graduate
    students, academic units, and research centres in understanding
    author rights and in making their research outputs openly accessible
    through MSpace or other open platforms or through support of gold
    open access publishing.
-   Collaborates with liaison librarians to assist faculty, graduate
    students, academic units, and research centres in describing,
    preserving and making research data available and accessible to
    appropriate audiences, and in writing data management plans,
    identifying appropriate venues and repositories for data.
-   Provides support in the discovery, use, and management of locally
    created research data and data available through
    disciplinary-specific open repositories.
  
The evaluation will be based on the incumbent's professional
performance; research, scholarly activity and creative works;
professional service; and professional development, in accordance with
Academic Librarians Performance Review and Development Guidelines
