+++
nid = "3377"
jid = "00202"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2013-02-08 13:34"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3377"
title = "CLIR/DLF Postdoctoral Fellowship in the Curation of Confidential Health Data"
employer = "University of Alberta Libraries "
employerurl = "http://www.library.ualberta.ca/"
postdate = "2013-02-04"
archivedate = "2013-02-28"
draft = "false"
+++
University of Alberta Libraries (UAL) seeks a postdoctoral fellow to
engage with and contribute to its innovative services in research data
curation and digital preservation. Working with professional staff
within UAL, the University of Alberta Research Ethics Office, and the
University of Alberta Health Law Institute, this fellowship position
will be responsible for investigating data management practices, norms,
policies, and infrastructure in health research that would improve
methods for sharing sensitive, private, or proprietary data.

In the 2012 UAL Survey on Data Sharing & Management, health researchers
on campus identified confidentiality as the most significant barrier to
sharing data. What can be done to provide legitimate research projects
with access to confidential health data, while protecting people against
possible harm? This will require a better understanding of the issues
regarding confidential health data, identifying privacy-enhanced data
sharing protocols, exploring the best ways of communicating what is
possible with officials responsible for safeguarding health data,
identifying collaborative data infrastructure that can provide secure
access to confidential data, and developing data use agreements
and rules that generalize application across datasets. All of these
activities will be conducted in the context of improving practices in
the curation of health data and its long-term preservation.

### Duties & Responsibilities

-   Mapping the current legal, ethical, and normative practices across
    the research lifecycle that affect access to and the sharing of
    confidential health data.
-   Examining the possible application of privacy-enhanced data sharing
    protocols and research data management infrastructure to health
    research, given the results of the mapping exercise in the first
    duty.
-   Collaborating with UAL data and digital curation staff in the
    development of data use agreements and rules applicable to health
    data.
-   Working with a health researcher to design and implement a use case
    of best practice for providing access to and sharing confidential
    data, including the preservation of such data.
-   Evaluating the efficacy of the data sharing practices in the use
    case.

-   Working with UAL data and digital curation staff to communicate
    better with health researchers and officials about data sharing and
    preservation.

### Role within the Digital Initiatives Group

This fellow will report to the Digital Initiatives Coordinator and work
collaboratively with members of the Digital Initiatives Unit.
Other collaborators and contacts will include officers in the Research
Ethics Office and researchers in the Alberta Health Law Institute and
Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, Nursing, and Health Administration.

### Professional Development Support

The fellow will receive local support for professional development
activities in addition to CLIR/DLF support.
  
### Required:

-   PhD in law, health administration, nursing, medicine, health ethics,
    or a related field.

 

### Desired:

-   Interest in and experience with confidential data in health research
    and data sharing cultures.
-   fundamental skills in designing and conducting research.
-   ability to work closely with researchers.
-   excellent project management and interpersonal communication skills.
-   ability to work both independently and with groups.
