+++
nid = "3696"
jid = "00257"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-05-02 11:37"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3696"
title = "Data Services and Collections Librarian"
employer = "UC San Diego Library"
employerurl = "http://libraries.ucsd.edu/"
postdate = "2014-05-02"
archivedate = "2014-05-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The Data Services and Collections Librarian is the leader within the UC
San Diego Library for managing and providing data and statistical
services, with a focus on social science data.  The position reports
primarily to the Director of the Library's Reference & Research Advisory
Services Program with additional assigned responsibilities in the
Library's Collection Development & Management and Research Data Curation
programs.

Responsibilities of the Position

-   Provides leadership for the management and implementation of data
    and statistical services and collections.
-   Serves as the specialist for dataset and statistical analysis for
    research assistance, assisting in person as well as virtual users
    and providing in-depth research consultations by appointment.  
-   Conducts data and statistics reference training (new and ongoing)
    for other reference providers and facilitates library communications
    about data and statistics resources.
-   Selects and manages datasets, statistical materials in all
    applicable formats, and statistical software to meet curricular and
    research needs of the campus.
-   Participates in and provides feedback for data-related local and/or
    UC-wide collection management activities and projects, including
    assessment of holdings, de-accessioning and relocating materials as
    needed.
-   Engages with campus communities, providing a combination of targeted
    or specialized services, including instruction, for dataset and
    statistical software users.
-   Provides general reference and research services both in person and
    virtually.
-   Works with the Research Data Curation Program to develop data
    curation and repository services for social science collections.
-   Engages with campus partners to make digital scholarly work and data
    openly discoverable and accessible for the long term.
-   Partners with curation and subject librarians for data curation
    outreach to campus.
-   Serves as the Library's liaison to ICPSR and DDI initiatives and
    represents the UC San Diego
-   Library at pertinent meetings and conferences.
  
Required qualifications:

-   Professional degree from a library school or other appropriate
    degree or equivalent experience in one or more fields relevant to
    library services.
-   Experience providing numeric data services support in an academic
    setting.
-   Ability to download and transform data files to meet the various
    needs of users.
-   Proficient with social sciences statistical packages and software,
    such as SPSS, STATA, SAS, R.
-   Ability to develop effective relationships between the library and
    campus IT departments to further dataset management projects.
-   Experience providing reference service in an academic or research
    library serving similar clientele.
-   Superior organizational, analytical, and communication skills.
-   Candidate must have a strong commitment to excellence in service and
    be able to work both independently and collaboratively.
-   Demonstrated strong commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion in
    higher education.


Desired Qualifications

-   Undergraduate and/or graduate degree in the social sciences.
-   Experience with GIS data and applications.
-   Experience in collection development activities in an academic
    library.
-   Experience with data curation in an academic environment.
-   Experience providing library instruction.
