+++
nid = "3723"
jid = "00261"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-05-30 10:26"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3723"
title = "Digital Science Librarian"
employer = "Columbia University Libraries"
employerurl = "http://library.columbia.edu/"
postdate = "2014-05-02"
archivedate = "2014-06-01"
draft = "false"
+++
The Columbia University Libraries seeks an innovative, forward-thinking,
technologically savvy professional to lead library support for
e-Science, data science, computational methods in research, and research
workflows for the science and engineering disciplines. The Digital
Science Librarian will identify, develop, and provide targeted,
point-of-need information and data support services to scientists and
engineers. The successful applicant will be a creative, self-motivated
problem-solver familiar with both the research laboratory setting and
computational methods for scientific research.

Reporting to the Emerging Technologies Coordinator, Science and
Engineering Libraries, the Digital Science Librarian will provide direct
service to faculty and students, including instruction and outreach,
research consultations, and virtual reference. The position will select,
evaluate, and promote information and data resources related to science
and engineering research and will engage scientists and engineers on
issues surrounding research data and publication in collaboration with
colleagues from across the organization, including the Center for
Digital Research and Scholarship. The position will also participate on
Libraries-wide task forces and working groups, and will represent the
organization at appropriate regional and national forums.


  
Required qualifications include:

-   Advanced degree (Masters or Ph.D.) in a science or engineering field
    OR a MLS/MLIS focused on e-Science OR equivalent combination of
    education and experience.
-   Demonstrated understanding of the work of laboratory scientists, of
    the scientific research process, and of the impact of e-Science
    methodologies upon scientific research.
-   Demonstrated creativity and flexibility, with particular emphasis
    upon the ability to conceptualize and conceive new solutions to
    researchers' information and data problems.
-   Demonstrated ability to effectively build partnerships and promote
    the benefits of change in an academic culture.
-   Demonstrated ability to work collegially, collaboratively, and
    independently with diverse groups, within and across a complex
    organization, and in a rapidly changing team environment.
-   Excellent communication skills, including the ability to actively
    listen, understand, and articulate the needs of users.
-   Excellent presentation skills.


Preferred qualifications include:

-   Experience with computer programming or software development.
-   Experience managing complex projects.
-   Undergraduate degree in computer science, data science, or a related
    field.
-   Experience with GIS, numeric data analysis, or data science.
-   Web design experience.
