+++
nid = "3737"
jid = "00266"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-05-30 12:52"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3737"
title = "Repository Librarian"
employer = "University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill University Library"
employerurl = "http://library.unc.edu/"
postdate = "2014-05-22"
archivedate = "2014-06-13"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill University Library seeks
a Repository Librarian for the Carolina Digital Repository
(https://cdr.lib.unc.edu/).  The Carolina Digital Repository is a
service of the University Library to the entire UNC Chapel Hill campus,
providing collection, preservation, and discovery tools for faculty,
researchers, staff, and students.  The Carolina Digital Repository is
based on the Fedora Commons repository on iRODS.  The UNC Chapel Hill
Library is an active development partner in the Fedora4 project. The
Carolina Digital Repository hosts the ETDs from the Graduate School, the
Honor's Program, MFA for Fine Arts, and the School of Public Health. 
The Carolina Digital Repository is the preservation home for other
significant collections, such as the Southern Folklife Collection
(http://library.unc.edu/wilson/sfc/) and the Research Laboratories of
Archaeology (http://rla.unc.edu/).


Reporting to the Head of Software Development within the division of
Library and Information Technology (LIT), the Repository Librarian is
responsible for the planning, development, testing, and implementation
of the Carolina Digital Repository (CDR), managing a diverse set of
stakeholders to the CDR, and collaboration with other departments that
provide technical resources in support of the CDR. The Librarian will
provide project management for the Repository Application Team
responsible for the direct technical development of the Carolina Digital
Repository and associated tools supporting data curation.  The
individual in this position will play a leadership role in developing
the technical and functional roadmaps with the Head of Software
Development, collecting functional requirements from stakeholders,
setting priorities for development, managing ingest of digital objects
and collections, and effective communication and documentation.  The
Repository Librarian will contribute to the planning and development of
CDR strategy, functionality, and capacity by analyzing user input and
feedback.


The Repository Librarian will directly support UNC faculty, staff, and
students with information, training, and assistance in depositing
digital materials into the CDR.  The Librarian will work with Library
staff and campus stakeholders to define and implement repository
policies, workflows, and capabilities.  The Librarian will work directly
with the Head of Digital Research Services, the Head of the Preservation
Department, University Archives, and Special Collections Technical
Services on preservation policy management to ensure that CDR programs
are aligned and integrated with other UNC systems as appropriate.  The
Repository Librarian will work with librarians, faculty, and the heads
of the various academic, administrative, and research units on campus to
identify materials that would be appropriate to include in the CDR,
explain expectations, policies, and workflows, negotiate deposit
agreements, provide services, training, and support, and investigate and
resolve user issues.  In coordination with staff from the Research Hub
and Technical Services, the Repository Librarian will consult with
depositors on ingest of materials, including mapping user requirements
and metadata to repository functionality and standards.  The Librarian
will facilitate the development and implementation of governance
policies and workflows for depositing and managing content in the CDR.


The Repository Librarian will serve on Library committees, and
participate in regional and national working groups related to
repository development and data curation, as appropriate, and represent
the University of North Carolina and its libraries at appropriate
conferences and meetings relative to institutional repositories
specifically and to the larger issues related to data curation and
scholarly communication.
  
**Required**: ALA-accredited master's degree in library or information
science or advanced degree in Computer Science, Archival Studies, or a
related field. Demonstrated experience managing software development
projects. Coursework or experience leading to knowledge of the
principles and practices of data curation and long-term digital
preservation.  Knowledge of metadata formats, including Dublin Core,
MODS, METS, and data exchange protocols such as SWORD and OAI-PMH.
Excellent communication skills.  Demonstrated experience of managing
complex workflows and details.  Ability to work collaboratively with
programmers, faculty, and library staff.


**Preferred**:  Demonstrated experience in the acquisition and
management of born-digital or digitized library, archival, or research
materials.  Experience using Agile Project Management. Some experience
with programming languages. Experience developing web applications.
Knowledge of software development best practices.
