+++
nid = "3690"
jid = "00250"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-04-04 07:56"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3690"
title = "Managing Director of "
employer = "The Consortium of European Social Science Data Archives (CESSDA) "
employerurl = "http://cessda.net/"
postdate = "2014-02-12"
archivedate = "2014-04-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The Consortium of European Social Science Data Archives (CESSDA) is a
pan-European distributed research infrastructure that provides large
scale, integrated and sustainable data services to the social sciences.
CESSDA has evolved from a network of European data service providers
into a legal entity and large-scale infrastructure under the auspices of
the European Strategy Forum on Research Infrastructures (ESFRI) Roadmap
in June 2013. Since then, CESSDA has been organised as a limited company
under Norwegian law. CESSDA is working to define and extend the
frontiers in this rapidly expanding field. The Main Office is located in
Bergen, Norway, and coordinates the cooperation between Data Service
Providers from the 13 European countries which currently participate,
and any which join in the future.

CESSDA is now seeking to recruit its first Managing Director.

We are seeking an outstanding person to head the Main Office, and act as
the chief executive officer, chief scientific officer and representative
of CESSDA in the international community.

### Role Description

Responsibilities of the Managing Director will include:

-   Building on prior work, draft strategy, work programme, budget and
    staff plan for CESSDA.
-   Planning the scientific and technical development, overseeing the
    implementation and operation of the distributed infrastructure and
    coordinating Service Provider cooperation.
-   Monitor and measure CESSDA's activities and report to the Board of
    Directors.
-   Specifically, monitor the adherence of the national Service
    Providers to the operational rules and standards for CESSDA related
    operations, and develop recommendations for counter measures for any
    irregularities.
-   Build strong pan-European and international relationships with a
    broad range of stakeholders within and outside the consortium. This
    includes CESSDA members, the relevant ministries and funding bodies,
    national social sciences data archives outside CESSDA, the EU, and
    international bodies, including research infrastructures on the
    European Strategy Forum on Research Infrastructures (ESFRI) Roadmaps
    as well as other research infrastructures.
-   Lead the pan-European and international fundraising efforts for
    CESSDA.
-   Plan, organize, and manage the Main Office in Bergen, which includes
    recruitment.
-   Ensure that CESSDA's services comply with appropriate ethical, legal
    and societal norms and principles.
-   Facilitate and support the operation of CESSDA's Board of Directors,
    General Assembly, Service Provider's Forum and the Scientific
    Advisory Board.

The Managing Director will be supported in these tasks by the team of
the CESSDA Main Office, consisting of up to eight persons.

### Benefits

Besides the opportunity to shape the implementation of a large
infrastructure in a quickly developing environment, the position offers
the following benefits:

-   A competitive salary, to be negotiated according to qualification
    and experience
-   Social security/benefits according to Norwegian regulations.
-   CESSDA is an inclusive, equal-opportunity and non-discrimination
    employer
-   For candidates with a relevant research profile, a Professor II
    position at the University of Bergen could be offered, to which the
    candidate could devote up to 20% of their time.

### Practical Information

The Managing Director will be based at the main office in Bergen and is
expected to be travelling frequently through Europe.

http://www.visitbergen.com/en/

This post is being advertised for a period of five years in the first
instance. The statutes currently allow the post to be re-appointed for a
further five years.
  
The ideal candidate will be able to elaborate the strategic goals of
CESSDA and demonstrate the leadership to make them a reality. Excellent
communication and negotiation skills are indispensable, as well as a
proven record of management capabilities including experiences in
financial management, organizational development and team leadership.

The successful candidate will meet as many of the following criteria.

-   A higher university degree or equivalent qualifications in the
    social sciences or a related field.
-   An understanding of current and emerging agendas and challenges in
    data management and curation in the social science domain.
-   Relevant experience on the European Research Area, international
    arena, as well as in European level funding mechanisms and
    understanding of the ESFRI process.
-   A proven fundraising record.
-   A record of scientific excellence in social science and/or data
    management.
-   The ability to understand organisational and technical issues
    involved in building, maintaining, and federating digital
    repositories, catalogues, authentication services, and similar
    infrastructure components based on modern information technologies.
