+++
nid = "3731"
jid = "00264"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-05-30 11:25"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3731"
title = "Functional Director: Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) Big Data Network Support "
employer = "UK Data Archive"
employerurl = ""
postdate = "2014-05-12"
archivedate = "2014-06-16"
draft = "false"
+++
The UK Data Archive as the lead organisation in the UK Data Service
partnership has been awarded funds to support to the Economic and Social
Research Council's (ESRC's) Big Data Network. The ESRC has separately
funded three centres as Phase 2 of its Big Data Network. These are the
ESRC Urban Big Data Research Centre, the ESRC Consumer Data Research
Centre and the ESRC Data Research Centre for Smart Analytics. This
support is also to be applied in the future to the third phase of the
ESRC's Big Data Network focussing on social media and third sector data.


The Functional Director (FD) has strategic and operational
responsibility for the UK Data Service (UKDS) support for the Big Data
Network. S/he will join the UKDS Functional Director Team. The
role-holder will be expected to work particularly closely with the
Director of the UK Data Archive, and the Director and Co-Director of the
Administrative Data Service (ADS), providing a "liaison" role between
the ADS and the UKDS.


UKDS support for the ESRC's Big Data Network requires that new staff
will be embedded into existing UKDS functions including pre-ingest;
ingest; data management and archival storage; access; training and
capacity building; and planning and standards development. This
post-holder will work within the Functional Director team to ensure that
the requirements of Big Data stakeholders (data owners and researchers)
are met for each of these functions.


The post holder will be responsible for the Secure Lab team which
manages research access, via secure means, to data which are too
sensitive, detailed, or potentially disclosive to be disseminated any
other way. S/he will also manage two planned research projects which
have been designed to enhance the UKDS contribution to the Big Data
Network, including projects to undertake research into the archiving of
administrative/transactional data and social media.

1. Responsible for providing leadership and setting the direction and
priorities for the support and management of novel data types into the
UK Data Service collection.
2. Collaboration with other Functional Directors to ensure the smooth
integration of these data and associated protocols and procedures into
the UK Data Service system.
3. Responsible project staff as appropriate and for the UK Data Service
Secure Lab team, including the extension of the Secure Lab team's
activities in support of secure access to Big Data Centres.
4. Ensuring line-managed staff understand and comply with all and any
procedures necessary to minimise the risk of disclosure of sensitive or
personal information. Working within the UKDA information security
protocols and playing a role in ensuring the continued certification of
the UKDA to ISO 27001 certification in collaboration with other senior
UKDA staff.
5. The role will require significant, active liaison with senior
stakeholders, including data providers from commerce, industry and the
public sector and involvement on external committees and steering
groups. A primary aim of the role is to work with the Big Data Centres
(Essex, Glasgow, Leeds and UCL) to ensure collaborative communication
between the different organisations and between the different
stakeholder groups.
6. Coordination of Big Data Centre activities where those activities
impact on the UKDA's responsibilities to the Centres, ensuring
consistency of standards and procedures across organisations.
7. To lead collaborative developments in data management, data access
and data curation nationally and internationally through active
participation in appropriate external bodies, and in project-based
partnerships with other data organisations including two UK Data
research projects, one on the archiving of administrative/transactional
data and one on the archiving of social media data.
8. The post holder will be required to lead on the development of any
new formal processes and procedures which are identified from the
enhancement projects.
9. Data acquisition: applying a harmonised approach (where possible) to
the negotiation between data providers and the relevant Research Centres
in order to increase the collection of data available for secondary
analysis through either the Research Centres and potentially the UK Data
Service. The post will cover outputs across the data access spectrum
from highly sensitive linked data to data that can be released under an
open government license.
10. Working with their ADS equivalent in the UK Data Service, provide
the organisational and motivational impetus for the agreement of data
owners on protocols and procedures and metadata production, arising from
the enhancement projects, including surrounding secure data access and
linking that can be applicable nationally across a wide range of
contexts.
11. Responsible for reporting on Big Data activities and for ensuring
the quality and consistency of such reporting. Reporting may be written
or oral, for funders and/or governing bodies, steering committees, and
other related stakeholders.
12. To be jointly responsible with other UKDS Functional Directors for
all strategic planning and policy decisions within the UK Data Service.
13. To represent the Archive in the University's Institute for Data
Analytics and Data Science.
14. To develop, resource, and oversee implementation of strategic tasks
and goals within the UK Data Service
15. To represent the Archive (and when appropriate the ESRC and/or the
University) in national and international forums.
16. Any other duties required by the Director or his nominee.
  
Functional Director: Economic and Social Research

Council (ESRC) Big Data Network Support

University of EssexPERSON SPECIFICATION

JOB TITLE: Functional Director: Economic and Social Research Council
(ESRC) Big Data Network
Support                                                 POST REF: SS317

Qualifications/Training    

-   Postgraduate degree or equivalent experience in a relevant
    data-using
    discipline                                                                               
-   Degree (or equivalent qualification) in a subject requiring
    numeracy                                                                                           
-   Experience/Knowledge
-   Experienced project/strategic manager   
-   Experience of the UK research environment
-   Knowledge of data owners' needs and challenges 
-   Experience in management, preferably in a research or academic
    setting, with strong motivational skills and ability to engender
    and     manage effective  teamwork    
-   Experience supporting data users
-   Experience handling sensitive data
-   Experience  of  legislative  environment  surrounding  access  to
    personal
    data                                                                                      
-   Experience of data management for curation
-   Sound understanding of data security requirements
-   -   Knowledge of a wide range of specialised information systems and
    standards, including technical and procedural requirements for 
    data  security,  data  management,  data  curation,  statistical   
     analysis
-   -   packages and methods, information security, metadata standards, 
    internet  technologies,  and  a  variety  of  technical systems,
    platforms and methodologies
-   -   Understanding of relevance and importance of organisational and
    cross-organisational
    procedures                                                         
-   Negotiation
    skills                                                                           
     
-   Knowledge of UK (and international) data access
    infrastructures      
-   Experience of management in a service environment           
                  
-   Experience of  overseeing  and  directing  the  development and
    delivery of services to agreed timeframes and
    standards                                            
-   Experience in the specification and development of new systems and
    services                                                                                       
                       
-   Experience in international collaborative work and a sensitivity to
    national and cultural
    differences                                                                  
            
-   Experience of data
    linking                                                                   
                    
-   Experience of working with a stakeholders, relevant to the
    post                              
-   Extensive   existing   personal   network   among   stakeholders,
    effective  working  contacts  among  government  departments,
    academic   units,   funding   councils,   and   sister   data  
    service organisations nationally and internationally    
-   Knowledge of ISO 27001

<!-- -->

-   Demonstrable negotiation skills
-   Leadership skills
-   Familiarity with handling either administrative / transactional data
    or social media data
-   Excellent communication skills both written and spoken, for
    conveying information to a wide range of stakeholders with differing
    levels of expertise and understanding
-   Ability to use initiative to address complex issues
-   Ability to work collaboratively
-   Can meet the requirements of UK 'right to work' legislation*
-   Can fulfil the staff vetting procedure for Government contracts
    (see general information for more details)
    
                                                        
