+++
nid = "3724"
jid = "00262"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-05-30 10:43"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3724"
title = "Project Officer"
employer = "UK Data Service / Digital Preservation Coalition"
employerurl = "http://ukdataservice.ac.uk/"
postdate = "2014-05-05"
archivedate = "2014-05-30"
draft = "false"
+++
Project Officer Job Description
Grade: 6 or 7 (UK UCU/UCEA National Agreement point 25-39)
Internal Liaison: Executive Director, Business Manager, Head of
Workforce Development and Skills, Head of Advocacy and Communication,
DPC Board, DPC Members
External Liaison: TIMBUS Project, Prospective DPC members, Digital
preservation and cognate professionals world wide
Duration: Fixed term contract until 31 December 2014
Purpose: To deliver and maximise benefits that will accrue to DPC
members from the Coalition's participation in research projects, thereby
maximising the impact of those projects.


1. Introduction
The Digital Preservation Coalition (DPC) seeks to employ or second a
Project Officer to help deliver its commitments to a number of research
projects, especially the TIMBUS (Timeless Business Processes) Project,
an initiative co-funded by the European Commission; and a new research
project on the preservation of social media Applications should be
submitted by email not later than 1200 on Wednesday 21st May Shortlisted
candidates should be ready to present themselves for interview on
Friday, 30th May 2014.


2. About this post
This is an exciting opportunity to work in a high-profile and
wide-ranging role. Recruitment will be to the DPC offices in London,
Glasgow or York or and is available immediately for 12 months full
time.
You will work internationally with the world's leading authorities in
digital preservation, developing and communicating first-class research,
connecting leaders and professionals from different sectors and
disciplines, and helping to influence public policy. You will have the
opportunity to develop an exceptional international portfolio of
professional contacts and you will gain experience in the operation of
EC-funded research. You will be a motivated researcher with strong
communication skills, have experience with new media, knowledge of
digital preservation -- or with a proven capacity to learn quickly. You
will be able to engage others with the outcomes of cutting edge
research.


3. About the Digital Preservation Coalition
The DPC is an advocate and catalyst for digital preservation, enabling
our members to deliver resilient long-term access to content and
services, and helping them derive enduring value from digital
collections. We raise awareness of the importance of the preservation of
digital material and the attendant strategic, cultural and technological
issues. We are a not-for-profit membership organisation and we support
our members through knowledge exchange, capacity building, assurance,
advocacy and partnership. Our vision is to make our digital memory
accessible tomorrow.
Digital preservation is characterised by a supportive, international and
vibrant community which is growing rapidly. Cross-sector and
interdisciplinary collaborations are highly valued and they create the
conditions for creativity and innovation in the face of shared
challenges. The DPC was founded in 2002 and occupies a distinctive
position within this community. It works with and on behalf of the
leading experts in the field internationally and it has a world class
reputation.
At the time of writing the DPC has forty seven institutional members in
the UK and Ireland as well as a number of international partners and
allies around the world. It is funded principally through member
subscriptions and receives around half of its funds through externally
sponsored projects. It is currently a partner in four major projects
funded by the European Commission -- TIMBUS, APARSEN, 4C and E-ARK and
it employs five full time staff with offices in London, Glasgow or York.
It is governed by a board of directors constituted from its full
members.
For more information about the DPC, see http://www.dpconline.org/


4. Current DPC Research Projects
In the first 6 months, the primary focus of this post will be to deliver
DPC commitments to the TIMBUS project as it heads towards completion in
December 2014. In the second 6 months, the post holder will support a
range of research projects, especially a new collaborative project with
UK Data Archive co-funded by ESRC on the preservation of social media.
The DPC is a partner in the TIMBUS project that is co-funded by the
European Commission. It started in April 2011, runs until end of
December 2014, and is an 'Integrated Project' -- a project which
supports research to achieve a specific objective and where the primary
outcome is new knowledge.
The TIMBUS Project focuses on resilient business processes. It makes the
execution context, within which data is processed, analysed, transformed
and rendered, accessible over long periods. TIMBUS also considers the
dependencies on third-party services, information and capabilities that
are necessary to validate digital
www.dpconline.org
our digital memory accessible tomorrow
information in a future usage context. TIMBUS delivers activities,
processes and tools that ensure continued access to services and
software to produce the context within which information can be
accessed, properly rendered, validated and transformed into knowledge.
The project is organised into nine work packages.
The DPC is involved in three work packages: 'Exploitation', 'Engineering
Services and Systems for Digital Preservation' and 'Dissemination and
Training', and is the project lead for the latter. 'Dissemination and
Training' constitute the DPC's largest contribution to the project. The
work package has been singled out for particular praise in recent
reviews and core tools, relationships and controls are already well
established. As work package lead, the DPC is responsible for
co-ordinating and ensuring the development and delivery of training
materials derived from the TIMBUS Project, for managing and performing
dissemination tasks and for managing the project contributions to
standards. Whilst the post holder will be expected to contribute to all
of these from time to time they will be largely engaged in the
'Dissemination and Training' work package.
The DPC also participates in other current and future externally funded
projects. The successful candidate may be expected to contribute to them
in a role similar to the one described for TIMBUS.
For more information about the TIMBUS Project see:
http://timbusproject.net/
The DPC will shortly start a new collaborative research project with the
UK Data Archive on the preservation of 'big data', funded by ESRC. DPC
is a partner in two components of this research with responsibilities
for original research on the preservation of social media and the
preservation of transactional data. Deliverables from these work
packages will include consultation and briefing for DPC members and the
completion of 'Technology Watch Reports'. The project is still in
development so the candidate will be expected to contribute to research
design, to lead research

Main Duties and Responsibilities
1. To develop and implement detailed action plans, provide progress
reports and manage budgets related to the following actions, in
consultation with the DPC membership and the partners of designated DPC
research projects:

-   Facilitating communications between research partners and with the
    DPC members and board;
-   Presenting and representing the DPC research projects to other
    stakeholders in digital preservation and cognate fields and to
    relevant standards bodies, in particular the DPC membership;
-   Coordinating, developing and delivering training based on DPC
    research projects;
-   Coordinating, developing and delivering dissemination activities
    based on DPC research projects;
-   Managing contributions to standards bodies from DPC research
    projects;
-   Raising awareness of digital preservation in the wider community;
-   Participating in and undertaking research and development on topics
    relevant to digital preservation.

2. To shape, review and disseminate outcomes from research projects to
the membership of the DPC, project partners and more widely;
3. To manage, monitor and report project resources and expenditure
within the research projects to ensure that costs are contained and
outcomes maximised;
4. To work closely with research partners and DPC members to ensure that
DPC contributions to research projects are fully understood and fully
supported by those involved;
5. To ensure that quality criteria for DPC work packages in the research
projects are met, monitored and maintained;
6. To consult members of the DPC and encourage their participation in
the research projects so that their needs are effectively articulated
and met;
7. To co-ordinate, support and encourage the diverse membership of the
Digital Preservation Coalition in their participation with research
projects, maximising the benefits to the DPC's members and the impact of
the project;
8. To represent and support the work of the DPC and contribute to the
Coalition's vision and strategic plan.
  
Qualifications:

Essential: Undergraduate degree (or equivalent) with relevant experience
and appropriate work-based training.

Desirable: Postgraduate qualification (or equivalent) with demonstrable
interest in a relevant
-  subject, including generic research skills and
completion of a self-contained research project; qualifications in
project management; demonstrable interest in digital preservation.

Knowledge:

Essential: Working knowledge of digital preservation or cognate
information management activities.

Desirable: Up to date understanding of digital preservation or cognate
information management; knowledge of research methods; advanced use of
communications IT and social media (publishing platforms, web content
management with CMS (especially Joomla)).

Skills /abilities /competencies:

Essential: Proficient IT literacy; capacity to learn quickly and
understand; attention to detail; strong interpersonal and negotiation
skills; professional and trustworthy.

Desirable: Ability to inspire confidence and influence others; managing
project budgets and resources; strategic thinker; adept at managing
complex relationships.

Experience:

Essential: Experience of communicating research OR Experience in digital
preservation or cognate information management role.

Desirable: Has written or delivered communications plan; use of social
media for marketing and communications; experience of managing projects;
experience of business environments;practical experience in digital
preservation.

Planning and organising:

Essential: Ability to manage own workload reliably and with minimal
supervision; able to plan workload ahead; ability to work flexibly
across a number of tasks simultaneously; ability to prioritise and meet
deadlines.

Desirable: Ability to anticipate and avert difficulties; experience of
managing projects in complex multi-stakeholder environments; experience
with EC-funded or other grant funded projects;

Initiative and problem solving:

Essential: Proven initiative and judgement to resolve problems
independently or through a support team.

Desirable: Creative flair; flexible and innovative approach to problem
solving; ability to discern opportunities; ability to resolve problems
where there is conflicting information and multiple competing solutions;
capacity to anticipate problems and proactively mitigate them.

Motivation and Teamwork:

Essential: Ability to work in small and distributed teams; committed to
collaboration; ability to plan with and obtain results from partners;
willingness to pool expertise; diplomatic and courteous.

Desirable: Track record of seeing work through to completion; capacity
to recognise needs of others and respond thoughtfully; capacity to lead
and motivate a distributed group of partners.

Communications:

Essential: First rate presentation and writing skills; capacity to
listen and understand;

Desirable: Ability to communicate material of a specialist or highly
technical nature; writing for the web; visual design; capacity to manage
large volume of communications from multiple stakeholders.

Personal Attributes:

Essential: Flexibility in working practices and outlook (e.g.
willingness to work occasional evenings and weekends when required);
ability to travel in UK and Europe.

Desirable: Ability to start immediately.
