+++
nid = "3611"
jid = "00248"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-02-05 14:48"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3611"
title = "Chief, Office of Statistical Methodology and Research"
employer = "Department Of Commerce Bureau of the Census"
employerurl = "http://www.census.gov/"
postdate = "2014-02-05"
archivedate = "2014-02-28"
draft = "false"
+++
The U.S. Census Bureau is seeking a highly motivated, innovative, and
capable individual to serve as the Chief, Office of Statistical
Methodology and Research. The Chief, OSMR is responsible for developing,
directing, and coordinating the application of mathematical statistical
techniques to the design, conduct and quality of the statistical
programs associated with the Economic Programs Directorate. You will
provide managerial, technical and administrative leadership to the
formulation and conduct of economic and government survey programs,
participate in the development of Census Bureau quality standard,
policies, and represent the Census Bureau with professional groups or
organizations interested in the OSMR and economic program modernization
and improvements work.

This position is a Senior Executive Service (SES) career-reserved
position. Positions in the SES are not graded. SES pay is commensurate
with qualifications. SES employees are eligible for bonuses and awards
based on performance. Veteran's preference is not applicable to SES.

Duties:

The Chief, OSMR plans, initiates, and directs applied statistical
methods and techniques covering the total field of mathematical
statistical theory as it applies to the censuses, surveys and special
data products conducted in the Economic Programs Directorate. 

You will work directly with the senior staff of the Economic Programs
Directorate to plan methods and designs of programs, conduct related
special studies, and formulate important applied methodological goals
that affect economic statistics. Additionally, you will advise and
inform Economic Programs Directorate management on optimal changes to
the programs that provide the most information for the least cost and
with the desired degree of reliability and quality. 
The Chief, OSMR directs the development of special-purpose mathematical
statistical theory for use in solving specific problems and documents
such work for knowledge retention and transfer; directs programs that
assess the statistical appropriateness and validity of current
procedures; and directs the development associated with the control of
non-sampling errors.

You will direct studies and initiate actions to improve the frames for
business and government entities, reducing duplications in these
populations and improving overall quality.  Direct the broad usage of
these frames in programs, including the development for ongoing and
systematic update of information maintained and managed on the business
register and governments master address files. Direct the acquisition
and use of new administrative data that supports the business register,
the governments master address files, or for use in new data products by
supplementing existing publication releases.

The Chief, OSMR directs the activities to develop and test new concepts
and new response patterns associated with the collection of information
from business and government populations. Conducts analysis of response,
and researches new cognitive and usability components associated with
electronic technologies.

You will represent the Census Bureau and the Federal government where
designated, on interdepartmental committees, with representatives of
other agencies, conferences of international statisticians, and other
statistical groups advising and consulting on mathematical statistical
methodology.

You may FAX supplemental documents at any time during the open period of
a vacancy announcement by going to http://www.usajobs.gov: 1) Log into
My USAJOBS, 2) Click on "Applications", 3) Locate the vacancy you
applied to, 4) Under "Application Status" column, click on "More
Information". This will take you from Recruitment-One-Stop (ROS) to the
Department of Commerce site (this will take a few seconds, please be
patient); 5) Select "View/Generate Fax Cover Sheets" and click
"Continue", 6) Select type of document to be faxed, 7) Click on
"Print Cover Sheet" to print fax cover sheet 8) Once the cover sheet
has printed click button "Return to ROS" to bring you back to the
USAJOBS site. You can then logout.
 
Current and former career SES members only - A copy of the most recent
SF-50 documenting your SES career appointment. (No response to ECQ
statements is required.)
 
SES Candidate Development Program graduates only - A copy of your OPM
Qualifications Review Board certification. (No response to ECQ
statements is required.)
 
Background and/or Security Investigation required.
 
Relocation expenses may be paid.
 
Individuals selected for Senior Executive Service positions may be
subject to reassignment across geographical, organizational and
functional lines.
 
If you left federal employment and received a buyout and you are
selected for this position, you may be required to repay the full amount
of the buyout to the agency that paid you.
 
You may be required to serve a probationary period of 1 year.
 
Filing of the Executive Personnel Financial Disclosure Report is
required if selected for this position (Ethics in Government Act P.L.
95-251).
 
Public law requires all new appointees to submit proof of
identity/employment eligibility.
 
If selected, male applicants born after December 31, 1959 must confirm
their selective service registration status.
 
In accordance with 5 USC 3303, any recommendation by Members of
Congress, Congressional employees, elected State or local government
officials, political party officials or other individuals or
organizations making the recommendation on the basis of the party
affiliation of the applicant is prohibited.
 
Executive Branch agencies are barred from accepting or considering
prohibited political recommendations, and indeed, are required to return
to the individual any prohibited political recommendation with reference
to statutory prohibition. Such officials may supply a statement which
"relates solely to the character and residence" of the individual.
 
The Department of Commerce provides reasonable accommodations to
applicants with disabilities. If you need a reasonable accommodation for
any part of the application and hiring process, please notify the Human
Resources Office. The decision on granting reasonable accommodation will
be on a case-by-case basis. TTY users can contact the Human
Resources Office via the Federal Relay Service, 1-800-877-8339.
 
The Department of Commerce does not condone or tolerate discrimination
based on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, physical or
mental disability, or sexual orientation.
  
Key requirements:

-   U.S. Citizenship.
-   Background investigation and/or security clearance is required.
-   Designated and/or random drug testing may be required.
-   One year probationary period may be required.

Executive Core Qualifications (ECQs):
ECQ 1 - Leading Change: involves the ability to bring about strategic
change, both within and outside the organization, to meet organizational
goals. Inherent to this ECQ is the ability to establish an
organizational vision and to implement it in a continuously changing
environment. Leadership Competencies: Creativity and Innovation,
External Awareness, Flexibility, Resilience, Strategic Thinking, and
Vision.
 
ECQ 2 - Leading People: involves the ability to lead people toward
meeting the organization's vision, mission, and goals. Inherent to this
ECQ is the ability to provide an inclusive workplace that fosters the
development of others, facilitates cooperation and teamwork, and
supports constructive resolution of conflicts. Leadership Competencies:
Conflict Management, Leveraging Diversity, Developing Others, and Team
Building.
 
ECQ 3 - Results Driven: involves the ability to meet organizational
goals and customer expectations. Inherent to this ECQ is the ability to
make decisions that produce high-quality results by applying technical
knowledge, analyzing problems, and calculating risks. Leadership
Competencies: Accountability, Customer Service, Decisiveness,
Entrepreneurship, Problem Solving, and Technical Credibility.
 
ECQ 4 - Business Acumen: involves the ability to manage human,
financial, and information resources strategically. Leadership
Competencies: Financial Management, Human Capital Management, Technology
Management.
 
ECQ 5 - Building Coalitions: involves the ability to build coalitions
internally and with other Federal agencies, State and local governments,
nonprofit and private sector organizations, foreign governments, or
international organizations to achieve common goals. Leadership
Competencies: Partnering, Political Savvy, and Influencing/Negotiating.
Fundamental Competencies: These competencies are the foundation for
success in each of the Executive Core Qualifications. Interpersonal
Skills, Communication, Integrity/Honesty, Written Communication,
Continual Learning, Public Service Motivation

 

Applications should be submitted electronically through usajobs.gov.
 
Basic requirements:
 
A. Degree: You must have a bachelor's degree from an accredited college
or university OR a combination of education and experience equivalent to
the completion of a bachelor's degree. Studies must have included at
least 24 semester hours of mathematics and statistics, 12 of which must
be in mathematics and 6 of which must be in statistics. OR
 
B. Combination of education and experience -- at least 24 semester
hours of mathematics and statistics, including at least 12 hours in
mathematics and 6 hours in statistics, as shown in A above, plus
appropriate experience or additional education.
 
NOTE: To show proof of meeting the Basic Entry Requirements, all
applicants MUST submit a copy of their college transcripts. See the
Required Documents section for more information.

### HOW YOU WILL BE EVALUATED:

In addition to the education requirements, in order to be considered for
the position, applicants are required to submit a resume and a separate
statement addressing each of the Executive Core Qualifications (ECQs)
and each of the Professional and Technical Qualifications (PTQs). A
narrative description of 1-2 pages per ECQ and PTQ is normally
sufficient.
 
When addressing the ECQs and PTQs, statements that describe personal
beliefs or philosophies should be avoided. Each response should include
a brief summary of the applicant's executive experience in relation to
the specific ECQ and PTQ and specific examples of accomplishments.
 
Please review the complete guide to writing executive qualifications at
[www.opm.gov/ses](http://www.opm.gov/ses) and use the Challenge,
Context, Action, Result (CCAR) model to develop your statements.
 
Applicants will be evaluated on the basis of the quality and extent of
total accomplishments, experience, and education they possess. All
applicants must meet the mandatory ECQs to be eligible for further
consideration, and must provide detailed evidence of how they meet the
additional PTQs for this position. Applicants must show that they
possess the required experience, knowledge, skills, and abilities, and
must show how and when they were used. This evidence must include clear,
concise examples that demonstrate the level of accomplishment and degree
of responsibility.
 
Professional and Technical Qualifications (PTQs):
 
PTQ#1 Extensive experience and understanding of statistical theory and
applications that can be applied to the leadership of a primarily
mathematical statistical organization that supports large, complex
surveys and/or censuses.
PTQ#2  Experience in dealing effectively with and understanding the
statistical needs of a broad range of data users including high-level
statistical officials in Federal, State, and/or local organizations,
professional groups, industry, the general public, and/or international
agencies.
PTQ#3 Broad level of experience managing or overseeing multiple,
large-scale complex projects, within scope, schedule, and budget.
