+++
nid = "3848"
jid = "00278"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-08-21 11:30"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3848"
title = "Research Associate-Data Dissemination Coordinator "
employer = "Carolina Population Center at UNC-Chapel Hill"
employerurl = "www.cpc.unc.edu"
postdate = "2014-08-21"
archivedate = "2014-08-21"
draft = "false"
+++
This position is for the research data dissemination coordinator for the
National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent to Adult Health (Add Health).
This position will promote and highlight Add Health's original data
collection efforts, provide research tools to identify and explore these
data, and improve data dissemination approaches to showcase this program
of research. The National Institutes of Health recently awarded a 22.7
million grant as a program project that encompasses two cores and four
research projects that will collect a fifth wave of data from a cohort
of 20,000 participants who have been in the study for 20 years. This
program of research is based at the Carolina Population Center at
[UNC]{.caps}-Chapel Hill
([[www.cpc.unc.edu](http://www.cpc.unc.edu)]{.Object}). This position
will manage the dissemination of research data generated by the Add
Health project that has been collected at four time points and will be
collected for a fifth time under the new grant. These data are complex
and will benefit from identification and creation of new research tools
for the research community to explore prior to and after obtaining them
for analyses. Obtaining the data involves users meeting various
requirements before access is granted. This position will be responsible
for creating state-of-the-art dissemination tools and direct interaction
with users to determine what the user community needs. This person will
work closely with a research team that includes experts in sociology,
maternal and child health, epidemiology, and data collection and
management. To work with a broad user community, this person must have a
combination of scientific knowledge, research data and analysis
experience, and interpersonal and management skills. S he will receive
general guidance from researchers senior staff and implements them with
various individuals. S he must be able to develop dissemination
strategies and plans, obtain feedback from the research community, and,
with minimal oversight, implement those strategies. S he will assist
with writing project reports and manuscripts.
  
A master's degree in information sciences, social sciences or public
health, or related area is required.

A minimum of two years of experience in managing or directing a research
data repository involving multiple projects and a large number of data
files is desirable. The following are all desirable skills: Familiarity
with sensitive data security requirements, [IRB]{.caps} processes, data
use agreements, and data security plans. Familiarity with databases for
management of information to track data users. Programming skills to
review datasets, link documentation (questionnaires, codebooks).
Experience updating web site content and contributing to review of web
site design. Experience with data discovery (metadata) tools such as
[DDI]{.caps} that allow searching, filtering, variable searches,
standard taxonomy for tagging, and methods for tagging information.
Familiarity with social science or public health data. Demonstrated
excellent communication skills with a broad social science public health
user community. Extensive understanding of research data and some
experience as a research programmer or analyst. Familiarity with Google
Analytics, [SAS]{.caps}, Stata, statistical transfer software,
encryption software, and [XML]{.caps} desirable. S he must have
outstanding organizational and management skills. S he must be able to
develop plans and timelines for research and technical activities,
anticipate and solve problems, prioritize competing demands, and work
independently. Ability to coordinate activities among a variety of
individuals.
