+++
nid = "3735"
jid = "00265"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-05-30 12:46"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3735"
title = "Data Services & Emerging Technologies Librarian"
employer = "Columbia University Libraries"
employerurl = "http://library.columbia.edu/"
postdate = "2014-05-16"
archivedate = "2014-06-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The Columbia University Libraries/Information Services invites
nominations and applications for the position of Data Services &
Emerging Technologies Librarian in the Social Sciences Libraries. The
Libraries seek an innovative, knowledgeable, and service-oriented
professional to support research data services and emerging technologies
for the social science disciplines. The successful applicant will be an
adaptive problem-solver familiar with social science research
methodologies and the practical application of statistical methods to a
variety of research data types.

The Data Services & Emerging Technologies Librarian is responsible for
providing support for quantitative and qualitative data and data
applications to faculty, students, and staff, and for identifying and
assisting in the implementation of emergent technologies related to data
services and social science research. As a member of the team providing
high-end research and data support in the Digital Social Science Center,
the incumbent will assist users in acquiring and finding, manipulating
and analyzing qualitative and quantitative data, including direct
assistance in the use of statistical software. The incumbent will work
with colleagues within the division and across the Libraries to provide
coordinated support for research data services and technologies.

Reporting to the Data Services Coordinator, the Data Services & Emerging
Technologies Librarian will engage emerging technologies and explore
innovative services to support new research methods and data
applications in the social sciences. The incumbent will manage and
support access to the Libraries' electronic data collection, including
support for data catalog records. The incumbent will also participate on
Libraries-wide task forces and working groups and will represent the
organization at appropriate regional and national forums.

One of the world's leading research universities, Columbia provides
outstanding opportunities to work and grow in a unique intellectual
community. Set in the Morningside Heights academic village, Columbia
also presents the unmatched dynamism, diversity and cultural richness of
New York City. The University Libraries, grounded in collections of
remarkable depth and breadth, are also building extensive electronic
resources and services. The Libraries at Columbia are committed to
collegiality, professionalism, innovation and leadership.

We offer a salary commensurate with qualifications and experience and
excellent benefits. 
  
The successful candidate will have:
- A Masters or PhD in a social science or related discipline such as
economics, political science, statistics, library and information
science, data science, etc., or an equivalent combination of education
and experience manipulating and analyzing quantitative and qualitative
data.
- Knowledge of social science research methodologies and experience
using quantitative and qualitative data.
- Demonstrated experience using quantitative research tools such as
SPSS, Stata, R. etc.
- Familiarity with web design and online services, including the ability
to write effectively for the web.
- Aptitude for teaching and developing instructional content and
documentation.
- Strong public service orientation.
- Excellent analytical, organizational, oral and written communications
and interpersonal skills.

Also highly desirable:
- Demonstrated experience using qualitative research tools such as
NVivo, Atlas.ti, etc.
- Familiarity with programming languages such as JavaScript, Python,
HTML, etc.
- Demonstrated experience working with library catalog records and
metadata.
- Understanding of research data management planning.
- Ability to work independently with varied user groups in a complex
organization and function collaboratively in a rapidly changing team
environment.
- Experience providing research support in an academic library setting.
- Demonstrated record of success designing projects and bringing them to
a conclusion in a timely fashion.  
