+++
nid = "3697"
jid = "00258"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-05-02 11:40"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3697"
title = "Open Data Specialist"
employer = "Chattanooga Public Library"
employerurl = "http://chattlibrary.org"
postdate = "2014-05-02"
archivedate = "2014-05-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The Chattanooga Public Library (CPL) is seeking a qualified candidate
for a newly created Open Data Specialist (ODS) position.  The successful
applicant will join our fantastic digital projects team on The 4th
Floor, a 14,000 sq ft public maker/hackerspace in Chattanooga's city
center.  This is a unique library job that combines the diverse talents
of a seasoned collection development specialist, a web developer, a data
scientist, and a community outreach specialist. The ODS position is a
year-long grant funded position awarded to the CPL as one partner in the
Open Chattanooga collaborative. With demonstrated success, we intend to
extend the position beyond the duration of the grant indefinitely.

The ideal candidate for the ODS position is an open data evangelist and
an expert who can work with representatives from city government as well
as citizen groups like Open Chattanooga to coordinate contributions of
data to a public portal. This [CKAN](http://ckan.org/) portal is [hosted
by the library](http://data.chattlibrary.org/) and accessed alongside
our other digital collections. The portal's exceptional construction,
performance, and maintenance are all the responsibility of the ODS.  The
ODS will coordinate with partners in other city agencies, particularly
DIT, to automate and integrate the flow of data into the portal. It is
the responsibility of the ODS to ensure that all data added to the
portal is useful, useable, and accessible like all of our other public
library collections. While this position does not require the candidate
to be a degreed librarian, prior experience working in a library is an
advantage.  

Chattanooga Public Library considers this data portal a key piece of our
digital infrastructure as we develop more online library services and
migrate some of our traditional library services into a networked
environment.  The ideal candidate will bring innovative and creative
thought and workflows to our already robust digital services team.  CPL
will serve more than just open government data from this platform, we
will collect and co-create, and other relevant data collections with the
community.  A candidate with a passion for developing cutting edge
services, skills to build and deliver applications and products, and a
desire to have fun working collaboratively with the rest of us will find
CPL to be a satisfying work environment.

This is a full-time position with benefits.  Sorry, this is not a remote
work opportunity, you will have to work in the library. 
  
-   Undergraduate degree or equivalent experience in CS or related
    field 
-   Demonstrated understanding of data structures and APIs
-   Familiarity with CKAN
-   Experience with Python
-   A strong history of contributions and commitments to open source
    projects
-   Please provide a link to your github account or another online
    portfolio
-   Bonus points for the applicant with UI / UX / design experience
