+++
nid = "5089"
jid = "00287"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-11-24 14:35"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/5089"
title = "Social Sciences Data Librarian"
employer = "The University of Texas at Arlington"
employerurl = "http://www.uta.edu/uta/"
postdate = "2014-11-20"
archivedate = "2014-11-24"
draft = "false"
+++
The Social Sciences Data Librarian will provide leadership and vision
for the development, implementation, and operationalization of UTA
Libraries' initiatives that assist faculty and students navigate social
sciences data-related issues, including data discovery, analysis,
visualization, and management. The scholar in this position will work as
an intellectual partner with faculty, students, and staff using data in
their research and teaching. Working with these constituencies, and in
collaboration with librarians, archivists, and staff throughout the
Libraries, this librarian will increase the Libraries' ability to
collect, preserve, and provide access to research data. This position
also provides guidance on the use of data and datasets as well as
expertise in support of published data repositories such as ICPSR, and
supports users requiring assistance with statistical and qualitative
analysis software. The Social Sciences Data Librarian will serve as a
partner and resource person for librarians and archivists involved in
facilitating faculty and student research.

**Essential Functions**

-   Develop and provide consultation services for faculty and students
    on social sciences data-related issues, including data discovery,
    analysis, visualization, and management.
-   Partner with subject liaisons to assess the practices of researchers
    relating to data creation, use, and preservation.
-   Collaborate with the eScience Librarian, the Digital Humanities
    Librarian, the Systems Librarian for Data Management & Curation, the
    Director of Scholarly Communication, and the Department Heads of
    Outreach & Scholarship and Digital Creation to develop an integrated
    set of data services supporting UTA researchers and research teams.
-   Plan and conduct social sciences data and data management
    professional development opportunities for subject liaisons specific
    to their assigned departments.
-   Act as primary liaison to a social sciences department.
-   Maintain expertise with issues related to scholarly communication
    such as copyright, open access, and data management and
    preservation.
-   Participate in university-wide initiatives related to data creation,
    use, and preservation.
-   Performs other duties assigned.
  
**Required**

An ALA-accredited MLS/MLIS degree or advanced degree in the social
sciences, data curation, or related discipline. An understanding of the
research process as demonstrated by academic or work experience.
Demonstrated experience with data management and curation services, with
particular focus on research practices relating to data discovery,
analysis, visualization, and management. Competency with data analysis
software, including SPSS, SAS, R, Nvivo, ESRI, and ArcGIS. Familiarity
with data management requirements of federal agencies. Strong commitment
to user services and support. Demonstrated ability to work
collaboratively with faculty, subject librarians, archivists, digital
project librarians and others in order to advance e-research. Must
possess excellent oral and written communication, leadership,
organizational and interpersonal skills.

**Preferred
**

If MLS/MLIS, an advanced degree in a relevant science or social science
discipline. 3-5 years experience with social sciences data services.
Knowledge of national and international trends in scholarly
communication, data management and curation. Experience with grant
writing or data management plan development. Ability to support datasets
for use in various statistical software packages. Project management
experience; demonstrated ability to design, lead, and complete a project
within scope. Demonstrated ability to work independently and
collaboratively with people of diverse backgrounds. Knowledge of the
research process and evolving models of scholarly communication.
Excellent interpersonal skills as well as verbal and written
communication skills. Demonstrated organizational and time management
skills. Competency with Microsoft Outlook, MS Office, Windows Operating
System and file management.
