+++
nid = "3612"
jid = "00249"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-02-05 14:55"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3612"
title = "Scientific Research Data Librarian"
employer = "National Institute of Standards and Technology"
employerurl = "http://www.nist.gov/"
postdate = "2014-02-05"
archivedate = "2014-02-28"
draft = "false"
+++
Announcement Number: ADMR-2014-0005
Position Title: Librarian ZA-1410-III (GS-11/12 equivalent)
Salary:  $62,467.00 - $97,333.00 USD
Position Information: Term Appointment, not to exceed 2 years
 
Hiring Agency:  NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY
Duty Locations: Gaithersburg, MD, US
 
Open Period:  01/10/2014 - 01/31/2014
 
 
The Information Services Office at the National Institute of Standards
and Technology (NIST) is seeking an experienced individual to help
accelerate the development of the Office's research data management
services. ISO is a team-based environment, which emphasize knowledge
sharing and collaboration to provide services to NIST scientific and
technical staff throughout their research and publishing cycles. The
selectee will serve as a Scientific Research Data Librarian to identify
strategies for understanding and responding to the evolving research
data service needs of NIST researchers. In partnership with ISO's
Digital Services Librarian, the selectee will assist NIST researchers
formulate data management plans, and prepare data for publication,
reporting, and repository ingest. The selectee will identify and
recommend tools, techniques, and practices for management of research
data throughout its lifecycle. The selectee will also monitor,
investigate, and report on emerging trends, best practices, and
technologies in digital data stewardship, e-science, scholarly
publishing, and open access.
  
### KEY REQUIREMENTS

-   You must be a U.S. citizen.
-   You must be registed for Selective Service (see Other Information).
-   You must be suitable for Federal Employment.

**Education**
This position has an education requirement. You must submit a copy of
your transcripts to document that you have met the education
requirement. Unofficial transcripts will be accepted in the application
package. Official transcripts will be required prior to a final offer of
employment.
 
The job requires the following knowledge, skills and
abilities/competencies:
 

-   Knowledge of the life cycle of research data in the context of
    scholarly publishing and digital preservation.
-   Skill in applying methods to curate research data.
-   Skill in using tools for managing digital data.
-   Ability to communicate orally and in writing with all levels of
    stakeholders and customers.
-   Ability to plan and deliver training on research data management to
    all levels of stakeholders and customers.
-   Knowledge of current issues in eScience/eResearch.
-   Ability to analyze and synthesize complex concepts and issues, draw
    conclusions, and make recommendations.

 
 
Qualifications
In order to qualify for this position, your resume must provide
sufficient experience and/or education, knowledge, skills, and
abilities, to perform the duties of the specific position for which you
are being considered.  Your resume is the key means we have for
evaluating your skills, knowledge, and abilities, as they relate to this
position. Therefore, we encourage you to be clear and specific when
describing you experience.
 
Basic Requirements for Librarian ZA-1410:
(Transcripts must be submitted)
Successful completion of one full academic year of graduate study in
library science in an accredited college or university, in addition to
completion of all work required for a Bachelor's degree.
OR
Successful completion of a total of at least five years of a combination
of college-level education, training, and experience. To qualify on this
basis, the applicant must establish conclusively that the education,
training, and experience provided a knowledge and understanding of the
theories, principles, and techniques of professional librarianship;
knowledge of literature resources; and the knowledge and abilities
essential for providing effective library and information services.
 
In addition to meeting the educational requirements above, applicants
must have specialized experience and/or directly related education.
 
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE (GS-11 OR ZA-III at NIST): Your resume must
demonstrate at least one year of specialized experience at or equivalent
to the next lower grade level (GS-09) or pay band (ZA-II) in the Federal
service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector.
Specialized experience is defined as experience providing scientific
research data management services. Specialized experience can include
experience in a college or university library which demonstrates
professional knowledge and experience with research data life cycle;
applying methods to curate research data; skill in using tools for
managing digital data.

SUBSTITUTE FOR SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE (GS-11 or ZA-III at NIST):
Successful completion of three full years of progressively higher level
graduate education in library science or doctoral degree related to the
position Or A combination of education and experience as described above
that equates to one year of experience.
