+++
nid = "3679"
jid = "00254"
uid = "325"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-02-28 14:48"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/3679"
title = "Research Coordinator"
employer = "Roper Center for Public Opinion Research"
employerurl = "http://www.ropercenter.uconn.edu/"
postdate = "2014-02-28"
archivedate = "2014-03-31"
draft = "false"
+++
The Roper Center for Public Opinion Research, a nonpartisan nonprofit
organization at the University of Connecticut, is looking for an FTE to
coordinate its new research unit and provide research and administrative
support to the executive director. Responsibilities include: assist with
grant research, proposal preparation, and reporting; assist with the
preparation of substantive reports, press releases, communications, and
outreach; organize programs and conferences; liaison to faculty groups,
university officials, and Center advisory board. Reports to executive
director; available to assist senior staff with specific assignments.

The Roper Center for Public Opinion Research is the largest archives of
public opinion data in existence and has a mission of (a) preserving
data in perpetuity; (b) providing access to the data; and (c) educating
consumers of polling data through programs of research and education.

**Job Duties**

-   Coordinates the activities and priorities for the new research unit.
-   Assists with grant research, proposal preparation, and reporting.
-   Plans, designs implementation, and evaluates activities to meet unit
    and Center objectives.
-   Prepares and supports the preparation of substantive analytical
    reports, press releases, communications, and outreach.
-   Organizes substantive programs and conferences, including promoting
    and advertising.
-   Liaise with faculty groups, university officials, Center's advisory
    board and Board of Directors.
-   Independently composes, prepares and/or edits standard
    correspondence and reports containing information that requires
    thorough knowledge of policies, procedures and data sources.
-   Supervises and trains students/staff in the Center's research unit.
-   Maintains records on outreach activities and research projects.
-   Transmits authoritative information and serves as a resource to
    students, staff and others regarding policies and procedures of the
    research unit.
-   Provides general administrative support to the executive director
    and senior staff as required.
  
Bachelor's degree in social sciences or public policy, Master's degree
or PhD preferred; two years of experience in research involving public
opinion data; proven ability to evaluate and produce reliable results,
problem-solve and troubleshoot problems. Candidate must be a team
player, highly organized, good at handling multiple tasks, and
comfortable working with people at all levels. S/he must have excellent
writing and editing ability; knowledge of Excel, PowerPoint, and
statistics; knowledge of SPSS/other statistical packages. Experience
grant writing or support for proposal preparation a plus. 

**Minimum**

-   Social Science Bachelor's Degree or equivalent combination of
    education and experience.
-   Two years experience related to detailed research involving public
    opinion data
-   Basic training in statistics
-   Proven ability to evaluate and produce reliable results,
    problem-solve and troubleshoot problems.
-   Experience using one or more statistical packages: SPSS, SAS, or
    Stata, or Excel.
-   Strong writing skills as demonstrated by a writing sample
-   Excellent editing skills
-   Sound interpersonal skills to liaise with faculty, board members,
    the media, students, and staff
-   Demonstrated ability to organize and publicize events and
    conferences
-   Able to handle multiple tasks and resolve complex problems
    efficiently, effectively and independently.

**Desired**

-   Knowledge of Roper Center resources and access tools
-   Ability to work with ASCII data files
-   Demonstrated supervisory and administrative ability
-   Experience researching grant opportunities
-   Grant writing or support for proposal
-   Master's Degree in related field
