+++
nid = "6334"
jid = "00291"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-12-17 10:26"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6334"
title = "Research Data Manager"
employer = "King's College London"
employerurl = "http://www.kcl.ac.uk"
postdate = "2014-12-17"
archivedate = "2014-12-17"
draft = "false"
+++
Applications are invited for the post of Research Data Manager to join
the Research Support and Digital Assets Team in the Collections and
Research Support Division. This is an exciting opportunity to join a
growing team within a library service which has an ambitious and long
term vision for research support. This new permanent role will lead the
establishment of the university's Research Data Management (RDM)
support infrastructure. Under the direction of the Research Support
Manager the Research Data Manager will be responsible for planning and
delivering the proposed new research data management support service.
They will undertake outreach with the research community, develop
policies and procedures to address the data life cycle needs of
researchers, as well as develop and implement strategies for the
effective management and accessibility of the university's research
data outputs.

Working closely with academics, IT, the Research Management & Innovation
Directorate and partners, the Research Data Manager will be developing
and implementing strategies that allow RDM stakeholders to contribute as
effectively as possible to the management and accessibility of the
university's research data outputs.

The post-holder will develop and deliver a service covering all aspects
of research data management including its organisation, description,
preservation, and discoverability, as well as providing training,
guidance and advocacy for research data management. They will form
strong links with the research community across departments and
professional services to investigate researchers' data needs and embed
research data management into the working practices of the university.
  
The successful candidate will have excellent communication and
interpersonal skills, good knowledge of research data management and
associated policies as well as awareness of digital preservation
requirements and activities. They will have a proactive approach to work
and be capable of working to tight deadlines. A qualification or
experience in project management is desirable but not essential.
