+++
nid = "6340"
jid = "00296"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-01-05 12:44"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6340"
title = "Data Management Product Manager"
employer = "University of California Curation Center (UC3)"
employerurl = "http://www.cdlib.org/uc3/"
postdate = "2014-12-31"
archivedate = "2015-01-05"
draft = "false"
+++
Looking for a challenging position supporting research data management? 
Join the University of California Curation Center's (UC3) DMPTool
<[dmptool.org](http://dmptool.org)> (Data Management Planning Tool)
team as a product manager. DMPTool is an innovative UC3 service that
helps researchers create quality data management plans. UC3 is a program
within the California Digital Library, based in Oakland, California.

We are seeking an experienced professional who knows how to apply theory
and put it into practice with in-depth project management skills and
knowledge of the research process, data management, and data sharing to
manage, promote, and enhance the DMPTool. This is a two-year contract
position. 
  
▪ Knowledge of and experience with data driven research and the emerging
importance of data management and sharing.  Familiarity with new data
sharing policies required by funding agencies and journal publishers.

▪ Excellent project management skills and experience coordinating and
promoting services. Proven ability to research, collect and analyze
information to use in determining product options or alternatives.

▪ Demonstrated ability to engage with people in new settings as well as
excellent interpersonal and communication skills.

 ▪ Ability to lead, build consensus and promote the exchange of
information among project team, internal and external constituencies.

▪ Strong oral and written communication skills.

▪ Demonstrated understanding of the research data processes including
data collection, description, sharing, preservation, and management.

 ▪ Entrepreneurial attitude to developing services; self-motivated, with
the ability to set and attain goals effectively and the flexibility to
adapt to change.
