+++
nid = "4962"
jid = "00284"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2014-11-18 11:47"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/4962"
title = "Science Data Librarian"
employer = "Pennsylvania State University"
employerurl = "http://www.psu.edu/"
postdate = "2014-11-11"
archivedate = "2014-11-18"
draft = "false"
+++
The Pennsylvania State University Libraries seek an innovative and
enthusiastic librarian who is interested in providing informatics and
data services across the science, technology, engineering and
mathematical fields and who, together with their colleagues, will shape
the future of library services in the STEM disciplines. This is a
12-month tenure-track position reporting to the Head of the Physical and
Mathematical Sciences Library.  The Prystowsky Early Career Endowment
accompanies the position for an initial three year period (with
possibility of renewal for an additional three years) for those
candidates within the first 10 years of their academic career. Funds
from the endowment will be available to the successful candidate to
support their research, teaching, professional travel expenses and other
needs.

**Responsibilities:*
-  The Science Data Librarian will work
collaboratively with their colleagues across the Libraries and in
particular the other science libraries, centers, and institutes with the
Eberly College of Science. For example, the Huck Institutes of Life
Sciences, Statistical Consulting Center, Center for AstroStatistics. A
complete list can be viewed at
<http://science.psu.edu/research-resources/research-centers>

-   Informatics and Data Services: Provide leadership and direction
    around data access and management in the sciences; Deliver expert
    data information advice and guidance to researchers and collaborate
    on the creation a suite of information services.
-   Liaison activities with assigned academic units: Develop
    collaborative partnerships with informatics researchers across
    disciplines, contributing expertise in information science and
    linked open data to research projects that leverage, mine and
    integrate bibliographic data and information systems.
-   Teaching, learning, and literacies: Create educational support
    systems for informatics and contribute to the science informatics
    curriculum; Design, deliver, and assess library-instructions
    programs to educate and inform faculty and students on scholarly
    communication issues such as open-access initiatives and digital
    publishing; Develop instructional programs and learning materials in
    a variety of formats, using instructional-design principles.
-   Reference and research: Provide reference assistance and research
    consulting for data access and management at all levels in person
    and in locations across Penn State.
-   Collections content and access: Develop and manage collections to
    support research and curricular needs of informatics researchers
    across the University; Collaborate with librarians in related
    subject areas and libraries/departments.
-   Research and Service:  Engage in research, scholarly publication,
    and professional service activities in areas appropriate to academic
    librarianship and the disciplines served.
  
**Required Qualifications:*
-  Requires a Master of Library Science degree
from an ALA-accredited institution (or equivalent); undergraduate degree
in a STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics)
discipline; ability to work independently and collaboratively; potential
to achieve the requirement for tenure and promotion in the areas of
librarianship, research, and service; excellent oral and written
communication and interpersonal skills; and be in the first ten years of
an academic library career. Please visit
<http://www.libraries.psu.edu/psul/policies/ulhrg07.html> to learn more
about the University Libraries Promotion and Tenure Guidelines.

**Preferred Qualifications:*
-  Advanced degree in a STEM discipline;
certificate or equivalent in informatics; data curation experience, with
a demonstrated understanding of issues and technical challenges,
including format migration, preservation, metadata and data retrieval
and use.
