+++
nid = "6360"
jid = "00305"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-03-13 16:18"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6360"
title = "Data Acquisitions Librarian"
employer = "The Federal Reserve Board"
employerurl = "http://www.federalreserve.gov"
postdate = "2015-03-13"
archivedate = "2015-03-13"
draft = "false"
+++
The librarian will work closely with three colleagues to manage the
Board's portfolio of data resources.  For a portfolio of specific data
resources and subject areas, the librarian will conduct reference
interviews to learn about new data needs, maintain relationships with
content vendors, negotiate both renewal of existing licenses and new
licenses, arrange training, work with technical services and data
analysts to ensure cataloging and access to date, and assist managers
with budget projections.  The Data Acquisitions Librarian reports to the
Chief Librarian; the position is non-supervisory.
  
The successful applicant will have a masters degree in library or
information science, or other relevant specialty and 2 or more years of
experience in acquiring and managing data and electronic resources, and
in negotiating, and reviewing agreements. The position requires
impeccable attention to detail and the ability to manage competing
projects.  Strong analytical and problem-solving skills are essential.
Excellent interpersonal and oral/written communication skills, sound
judgment, and initiative are required. The librarian should enjoy
working collaboratively as part of a team while at the same time be able
to work efficiently and effectively as an individual.

Highly desirable:  
Knowledge of economics, banking, finance, or business topics
demonstrated through college coursework or work experiences.  
Experience and understanding of data and its use in research.
