+++
nid = "6785"
jid = "00345"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-07-31 11:45"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6785"
title = "Statistical Disclosure Control Manager"
employer = "UK Data Archive"
employerurl = "http://www.data-archive.ac.uk/"
postdate = "2015-07-31"
archivedate = "2015-07-31"
draft = "false"
+++
This position offers an exciting opportunity to provide strategic
leadership on statistical disclosure issues and to ensure that staff
within and across the UK Data Archive are appropriately equipped to
carry out their roles in the areas of disclosure control and review and
safe environments for access to data.

Purppose of this position: To provide strategic leadership (internally
and externally) on statistical disclosure issues and to ensure that
staff within and across the UK Data Service are appropriately equipped
to carry out their roles in the areas of disclosure control and review
and safe environments for access to data. The role-holder will be
responsible for the coordination, development and implementation of
protocols, training, user support and quality assurance processes for
data owners and UK Data Service users.
  
Essential:

-   Undergraduate degree or equivalent qualification.
-   Demonstrable expertise in statistical analysis of complex datasets,
    especially those containing personal information.
-   Demonstrable expertise in data handling techniques.
-   Demonstrable expertise of the application of Statistical Disclosure
    Control techniques.
-   Demonstrable understanding of the risks associated with statistical
    disclosure, and up-to-date knowledge and appreciation of data
    privacy issues.
-   Demonstrable experience of developing training materials.
-   Demonstrable expertise in using statistical software, e.g. R, SPSS,
    STATA, MATLAB, etc.
-   Experience of project management
-   Credible communication skills and proven experience at a senior
    level
-   Self-starter, with the ability to generate and implement ideas
-   Ability to communicate/present to a diverse set of audiences
-   Ability to liaise effectively with remote, partner organisations and
    other internal sections in a sensitive and persuasive way
-   Ability to work independently as well as part of a team and across
    teams
-   Excellent problem solving skills
-   Can fulfil the staff vetting procedure for Government contracts (see
    general information for more details)
-   Can meet the requirements of UK 'right to work' legislation*.

Desired:

-   Postgraduate qualification (MA, PSC, PG diploma, PhD, etc.)
    including a significant statistical component, or significant
    working research experience in a similar area.
-   Experience of programming (Python)/coding, API development, Extract,
    Transform and Load (ELT) type skills.
-   Understanding of the processes surrounding the linkage of datasets,
    in particular linking administrative data to survey data
-   Experience of setting priorities, staff planning, resources and time
-   Experience of having written and managed a successful bid for
    funding
-   Knowledge and experience of creating and enhancing data
    documentation and metadata
-   Customer Service knowledge and experience of supporting users
-   An interest in issues surrounding the re-use of data for research
