+++
nid = "6817"
jid = "00358"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-09-09 15:05"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6817"
title = "Research Data Management Services Coordinator"
employer = "University of Alberta"
employerurl = "http://ualberta.ca/"
postdate = "2015-09-08"
archivedate = "2015-09-09"
draft = "false"
+++
University of Alberta Libraries seeks a full-time sessional
Administrative and Professional Officer ready to lead research data
management services at one of Canada's great research institutions.

Reporting to the Associate University Librarian, Information Resources
and Digital Initiatives, and working within a team-oriented environment,
the successful candidate will shape all phases of the planning and
development of a wide range of research data management initiatives and
services. Examples include the development and coordination of
proposals, project plans, workflows, tools (e.g.
<https://dmp.library.ualberta.ca/>), communications, and assessment, in
addition to providing direct support and guidance to clients. The
position works closely with a strong technical and professional cohort,
and together, will support ventures across the full spectrum of the
Libraries' research data interests, including local, national and
international partnerships. The ideal candidate will thrive in an
environment that is filled with challenge, change, and opportunity for
professional growth.

The University of Alberta Libraries is a leading research library in
Canada, offering a broad range of data-related services and collections,
managed by talented, highly engaged teams. The Libraries enjoy many
relationships with other organizations and the broader research
community. UAL is actively involved in partnerships such as the Canadian
Association of Research Libraries (CARL) Portage initiative, Consortia
for Advancing Standards in Research Administrative Information (CASRAI),
Data Liberation Initiative (DLI), and the Canadian Polar Data Network
(CPDN). Research data management has been identified as a strategic
priority of the library and is expected to be an area of significant
growth  

The Libraries, utilizing positions such as this one, endeavor to
actively support and help shape scholarly communications, higher
education and the research enterprise. For more information, please
visit our website at <http://www.library.ualberta.ca/>.
  
Qualifications include a graduate degree with a minimum of 3 years
practical experience in managing data. Further, applicants should
demonstrate experience in having worked within a research data-oriented
library setting, or be able to otherwise show direct involvement with
having conducted research, working directly with data management tools
and related processes. Knowledge of various data formats, services,
tools, and points of access is highly desirable. Applicants should have
demonstrable skill in preparing and working with structured and
unstructured data for research use, e.g. tabular data.  Knowledge of
metadata standards as it relates to describing and working with research
data is also highly desirable. Preference will be given to candidates
that can also demonstrate their involvement in regional or national
research data planning initiatives.

Applicants must possess a strong service orientation, excellent
communication skills, an interest in implementing new initiatives,
superior leadership skills, commitment to cooperative action and
collaborative work, and a demonstrated interest in supporting the goals
of the Libraries and its interest in research data management and
stewardship.
