+++
nid = "6833"
jid = "00373"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-10-26 12:50"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6833"
title = "Tenure-Track Assistant Professor in Strategic Communication/Data Analytics"
employer = "American University: School of Communication"
employerurl = "http://www.american.edu/soc/"
postdate = "2015-10-26"
archivedate = "2015-10-26"
draft = "false"
+++
The School of Communication at American University, Washington, D.C.,
invites applications for a full-time, tenure-track position at the rank
of Assistant Professor in the Public Communication Division beginning
August 1, 2016.

Responsibilities include teaching a 2-2 load of undergraduate and
graduate courses, as well as participation in department, school and
university activities. All faculty are expected to hold office hours and
participate in School and University activities and service. Faculty
work closely with students on individual and group projects and serve as
mentors.
  
We are seeking candidates with demonstrated expertise in the different
ways that political campaigns, NGOs, nonprofits, corporations and
federal, state and local governments dissect data and analyze the
digital, behavioral, media and economic footprints of consumers, voters
or constituents. Candidates will show a strong potential for scholarly
and/or professional growth in identifying and targeting audiences, using
analytics to evaluate impact, and utilizing micro-targeting to
understand public attitudes, lifestyle preferences, values, consumer
interests, political concerns, and media and technology habits.
Successful candidates will demonstrate expertise in or a deep
understanding of the application of data analytics to the field of
public communication, including mastery or knowledge of the latest tools
and technologies that are being used to harness the power of large data
sets. Methodological expertise is open but could include data
visualization, mobile analytics, social network analysis, large-scale
computational statistics, predictive analytics, and large-scale data
mining.  

The committee will place a priority on candidates with a PhD and
professional experience in the field as well as candidates with a
relevant master's degree and extensive, noteworthy professional
experience in the field.
