+++
nid = "6357"
jid = "00303"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-02-24 12:10"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6357"
title = "Data Services Librarian"
employer = "New York University "
employerurl = "http://www.nyu.edu/"
postdate = "2015-02-24"
archivedate = "2015-02-24"
draft = "false"
+++
New York University Libraries is seeking an energetic, creative, and
knowledgeable librarian to support the needs of data-intensive research
and teaching at NYU and to provide vision and leadership as we continue
to grow our data services.

The Data Services Librarian position is a tenure-track position based in
the NYU Data Services. Data Services offers access to specialty software
packages; statistical, geospatial, and qualitative data analysis
training and support; and consulting expertise in the use of numeric,
qualitative, and spatial data for research, including data access,
analysis, collection, data management, and preservation. This position
reports to the Social Sciences Coordinator/Co-Coordinator of Data
Services in the Collections and Research Services Division of New York
University Libraries.

The Data Services Librarian will bring substantive experience and
leadership to the NYU Data Services as we chart a course in creating and
sustaining a rapidly evolving set of services that meet our users'
needs. She/he will select, acquire, manage, and deliver licensed, free,
and researcher-generated numeric data collections to support campus
research and scholarship; work with subject specialists and
technologists to facilitate access to data resources across the
disciplines; and play an instrumental role in the library's efforts to
design, implement, and optimize systems for management, discovery, and
access to data resources.

The incumbent will promulgate awareness of our resources and services
among faculty and students through outreach and liaison activities and
in partnership with other service providers; work closely with the Data
Services team and the Librarian for Geospatial Services to design and
deliver data-focused instruction, reference, and consultation
activities; and serve as NYU's official representative to ICPSR, the
Roper Center, and others. In collaboration with the Research Data
Management Librarian, she/he will also develop a service framework for
working with researchers to manage their data throughout the lifecycle,
including preparation for archiving and preservation. Depending upon the
background of the candidate, she/he may also serve as liaison librarian
to one or more programs or departments, selecting materials and
providing services to support the research and teaching of faculty,
graduate, and undergraduate students in said areas.

The Data Services Librarian will participate in library-wide committees,
activities, and special projects, especially those involving new
technologies and data. The incumbent will develop and maintain awareness
of data-centered initiatives across the sciences, attending professional
meetings, workshops and conferences for training and continuing
professional development.
  
*Required:*

-   Minimum one graduate degree (master's level or higher) for
    consideration. A second graduate degree will be required for tenure
    review. One of the two graduate degrees must be an ALA-accredited
    MLS or equivalent.
-   Minimum 3-5 years of Data Services experience, including intensive
    involvement with quantitative and/or geospatial data products and
    processes.
-   Ability to articulate a vision of the services, infrastructure, and
    skills required to support the data needs of researchers in an
    academic setting.
-   Knowledge of public and proprietary resources for national and
    international numeric data.
-   Understanding of trends in data management throughout the research
    lifecycle, including creating, processing, analysis, preservation,
    access, and reuse of research data.
-   Ability to work courteously and effectively with patrons and
    colleagues in a collaborative team environment.
-   Excellent oral, written, and interpersonal communications skills.
-   Candidates must possess a strong public service orientation,
    demonstrate a high degree of facility with technologies and systems
    germane to the 21st century library, and be well versed in the
    issues surrounding scholarly communications.

*Preferred:*

-   Academic or professional experience in the social sciences,
    sciences, and/or other fields utilizing quantitative methodologies.
-   Demonstrated experience working across organizational boundaries and
    managing complex stakeholder groups to move projects forward.
-   Reference/consultation, teaching, and outreach experience in an
    academic library.
-   Working knowledge of metadata standards related to the description,
    access, and preservation of numeric data, such as the Data
    Documentation Initiative (DDI) specification.
-   Experience acquiring data resources for a library collection.
-   Experience helping researchers with data management planning.
-   Basic familiarity with software for statistical, geospatial, and/or
    qualitative analysis (e.g. SAS, SPSS, Stata, R, ArcGIS, Atlas.ti,
    NVivo).
