+++
nid = "6411"
jid = "00333"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-06-23 11:41"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6411"
title = "Social Sciences and Documents Librarian"
employer = "Emory University Libraries"
employerurl = "http://www.emory.edu/home/index.html"
postdate = "2015-06-19"
archivedate = "2015-06-23"
draft = "false"
+++
Emory Libraries has an exciting opportunity for a social science
librarian to cover the subject areas of Economics, Development Studies
and Sociology, and to assist in management and reference for the
international and US Federal Documents. As a social sciences librarian
(Economics. Sociology and Development Studies) and Documents librarian,
s/he will be involved and engaged in the entire life-cycle of research,
teaching and learning processes. S/he will provide support and guidance
for accessing, locating and leveraging relevant print and electronic
collections and data resources, assisting with data management and
curation, and addressing and promoting issues of scholarly
communication. S/he will collaborate with and support faculty in
course-specific ways, including providing point of need instruction
sessions and assignments, research guides and/or tutorials. The
librarian also works closely with the Electronic Data Center in the
Emory Center for Digital Scholarship (ECDS) to assist students and
faculty with quantitative and numeric data needs. The librarian will
also provide research assistance for the international and U.S. federal
documents collection (including the UN and UK documents) to students and
faculty across all disciplines. In addition, the librarian will work
closely with the Depository Librarian to manage these documents
collections. Finally, s/he also will work the reference desk on average
3 hours per week.
  
Required Qualifications

-   ALA-accredited master's degree in Library and Information Science OR
    equivalent education and experience
-   Subject experience in a social science discipline
-   Ability to build and sustain effective interpersonal relationships
    with library staff, faculty and students, off campus faculty and
    administrators, campus administrators, etc.
-   Commitment to user-centered services
-   Strong interest in technology and tools for research and teaching
-   Knowledge of scholarly communication issues and trends within the
    social science disciplines.
-   Evidence of excellent communication, public speaking, teaching,
    writing and analytical skills.
-   Evidence of analytical, organizational, communication, project, and
    time management skills and demonstrated ability to set priorities,
    meet deadlines, and complete tasks and projects on time and within
    budget and in accordance with task/project parameters.
-   Commitment to fostering a diverse educational environment and
    workplace and an ability to work effectively with a diverse faculty
    and student population.
-   Capacity to thrive in an ambiguous, future-oriented environment of a
    major research institution and to respond effectively to changing
    needs and priorities.
-   Demonstrated knowledge of current trends and issues in academic
    libraries, higher education, and relevant subject disciplines.
-   Evidence of active participation, involvement, and leadership in
    local, state, regional, national, or international professional or
    scholarly associations.

 

Preferred Qualifications

-   An undergraduate or graduate degree in business, economics, or
    social sciences is desirable.
-   Experience working with international and/or US federal documents
-   Knowledge of major quantitative and numeric social science data
    sources
-   Three to five years of professional experience in an academic
    library
