+++
nid = "6813"
jid = "00354"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-09-02 12:02"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6813"
title = "Humanities Data Curator"
employer = "University of California, Santa Barbara"
employerurl = "http://www.ucsb.edu/"
postdate = "2015-09-02"
archivedate = "2015-09-02"
draft = "false"
+++
Reporting to the Head of Cataloging & Metadata Services (CMS), the
Humanities Data Curator has primary responsibility for the planning,
implementation, and ongoing production of digital collections and
scholarly initiatives in support of digital humanities scholarship and
artistic production on campus to ensure their high functionality and
discoverability through the flow and lifecycle of digital research data.
As part of an evolving team of Data Curators, the candidate will be
expected to make substantial contributions to his/her primary area of
responsibility as well as to collaborate with other members of this
team.

The Humanities Data Curator is responsible for collecting, managing,
curating, preserving, and providing access to digital humanities
datasets and other digital collections in the Library. The candidate
actively manages data produced by humanities scholars on campus, as well
as data acquired by the Library, and ensures ongoing sustainable
preservation and access through metadata creation and data discovery
tools development. The candidate participates in the development,
evaluation, education, and implementation of metadata policies,
standards, goals, procedures, and workflows in cooperation with engaged
campus stakeholders.

The Humanities Data Curator will create and implement the Library's
support plan for digital humanities researchers and provide research
data consultation to campus data creators. S/he will understand the ways
in which humanities scholars conduct research in this new era of data
sharing, including using new computational methods of analysis (for
example, text-mining, topic modeling, social network analysis, or
mapping and visualization).

In collaboration with humanities subject librarians and other data
curators in the library, the Humanities Data Curator will provide
leadership to define the library's strategy as it transforms research
data services. S/he will engage relevant faculty and researchers and
will collaboratively provide services that are scalable to each data
set, promote the Library's digital humanities research data services,
and educate data users and producers of datasets on campus. The
Humanities Data Curator will contribute to local, regional, and national
digital humanities discussions and initiatives.
  
Required:

-   ALA accredited MLS or equivalent experience in one or more fields
    relevant to library services in data curation.
-   Significant relevant experience working with digital humanities
    projects.
-   Demonstrated knowledge of issues and technical challenges related to
    data curation, including format migration, preservation, metadata,
    data access (including open access).
-   Working Knowledge or advanced training with XML metadata.
-   Knowledge of metadata standards, such as TEI and EAD, and data
    management practices in humanities.
-   Familiarity with common content-management-system platforms used by
    humanities data creators such as WordPress and Omeka.
-   An understanding of the humanities research process as demonstrated
    by academic or work experience.
-   Ability to work independently and collaboratively, prioritizing work
    to ensure that departmental and library goals are realized.
-   Excellent organizational skills, proven problem solving ability, and
    flexibility.
-   Demonstrated initiative in fostering new ideas and in implementing
    change.
-   Excellent oral, written, and interpersonal communication skills.

Preferred:

-   Advanced degree in humanities or related field.
-   Experience with digital preservation standards and best practices,
    and digital rights management.
-   Experience with scholarly repository platforms and relevant data
    manipulation tools.
-   Prior experience in data visualization and/or data-mining.
-   Working knowledge in intellectual property issues (including
    Creative Commons licensing).
-   Working knowledge of Linked Data principles and scripting languages,
    such as Perl, PHP, and XSLT, and APIs.
