+++
nid = "6860"
jid = "00378"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-12-14 10:43"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6860"
title = "Associate Director, Qualitative and Multi Method Inquiry"
employer = "Syracuse University"
employerurl = "http://www.syr.edu/"
postdate = "2015-12-10"
archivedate = "2015-12-14"
draft = "false"
+++
CQMI's Associate Director, plays two central roles. First, s/he oversees
CQMI's administration, operations, and finances, administering CQMI's
programs and initiatives within Syracuse University as well as the
various aspects of qualitative research infrastructure [CQMI]{.caps}
hosts including the Qualitative Data Repository ([QDR]{.caps}), the
Institute for Qualitative and Multi-Method Research, two Cambridge
University Press book series, and other related activities. Second, s/he
provides substantive support for [QDR]{.caps}, developing guidance
documents, engaging in outreach and data recruitment, and actively
interacting with QDR's actual and potential user base.
  
-   A Master's degree or equivalent graduate degree in Library Science,
    Information Science, Data Science, or a related field OR in a social
    science or humanities discipline with a tradition of generating and
    using qualitative data, including but not limited to Political
    Science, Sociology, History, or Anthropology.
-   In addition to the expertise implied by the credentials listed
    below, he or she will also have experience or coursework in
    technology and data administration.
-   The position requires excellent communication skills, and the
    ability to interact effectively with an international community of
    scholars, students and practitioners.
-   Flexibility and the ability to engage in multiple responsibilities
    and obligations simultaneously are also necessary.
-   Ability to self-start, to work independently and as part of a team,
    and to help to direct team activities when necessary are likewise
    required. 
-   Management-level administrative experience in an academic setting is
    strongly preferred.
