+++
nid = "6777"
jid = "00340"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-07-17 11:13"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6777"
title = "Data Librarian "
employer = "Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis"
employerurl = "https://www.minneapolisfed.org/"
postdate = "2015-07-15"
archivedate = "2015-07-17"
draft = "false"
+++
[]{.text}

The Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis is seeking a Data Librarian for
the Research Library.  The Research Library, which is co-located in the
Research Division, provides services to Research Economists and
affiliated scholars.
 

Responsibilities:

-   Provide research and reference service including locating data and
    supporting documentation and performing in-depth bibliographic
    searching.
-   Negotiate data contracts with third parties and manage compliance
    with licensing requirements.
-   Perform analysis of data use in Minneapolis Fed Research
    publications.
-   Create and maintain a process for data lifecycle management,
    including recording requests, disseminating contract terms to users,
    managing access to data, and archiving and preserving data.
-   Manage compliance of internally created and purchased data with
    Federal Reserve information security requirements.
-   Develop expertise in data archiving options and assist users with
    data preservation activities.
-   Enhance accessibility of purchased and created datasets through the
    assignment of metadata.
-   Test data quality through profiling activities.
-   Participate in Federal Reserve System data committees and
    initiatives.

[]{.text}

[]{.text}

 
  
-   Master's degree in Library, Information, or Data Sciences or a
    related field.
-   3 years of related experience in a library, data center, or similar
    setting.
-   Ability to work well in a team-based and self-directed environment.
-   Excellent written and interpersonal communication skills.
-   Ability to lift/carry 10 pounds.
-   Experience with data management tools and/or statistical software
    preferred.
