+++
nid = "6822"
jid = "00363"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-09-29 14:35"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6822"
title = "Social Sciences Librarian"
employer = "Ohio State University"
employerurl = "https://www.osu.edu/"
postdate = "2015-09-29"
archivedate = "2015-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
The Ohio State University (OSU) Libraries seeks a dynamic and
self-motivated librarian for the position of Social Sciences Librarian.
This tenure-track librarian has primary responsibility for providing
user centered services in support of teaching, research, and scholarship
related to the departments of Anthropology, Economics, and the School of
Communication. The librarian approaches delivery of services with
creativity and innovation to align with the Libraries' Strategic Plan
and to operate within the Engaged Librarian Framework. Hallmarks of
success will include building strong partnerships, deepening engagement,
managing collections, and leveraging technology to collaborate with the
world class and renowned faculties in these subject areas
  
Required Qualifications:

-   An ALA-accredited MLS or MLIS degree
-   Enthusiasm for engagement with Social Sciences faculty and students
    about their research, teaching, learning,and information needs.
-   Bachelor's Degree in a Social Sciences discipline or an equivalent
    combination of education and experience.

Desired Qualifications:

-   Evidence of leadership potential, including excellent interpersonal
    and written skills and ability to perform in a complex,
    interdisciplinary team environment and to communicate with a wide
    range of constituencies.
-   Strong analytical and problem-solving skills and a demonstrated
    ability to work collaboratively.
-   Experience with emerging technologies and their application in
    libraries and higher education.
-   Interest in professional development and research.
