+++
nid = "6829"
jid = "00369"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-10-16 13:38"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6829"
title = "Geospatial Consultant"
employer = "The University of Virginia"
employerurl = "http://www.virginia.edu/"
postdate = "2015-10-16"
archivedate = "2015-10-16"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Virginia Library establishes deep connections with
faculty and students in ways that foster excellence in current and
emerging research, scholarship, teaching and learning. The Geospatial
Consultant will support that mission by collaborating with a cohort of
librarians plus data science and geospatial data experts to: shape our
public service model for geospatial and geostatistical consultation and
delivery; support research and teaching that uses geospatial and
geostatistical information; identify emerging needs in these fields and
envision new services in response; and develop and strengthen
relationships among the library, faculty and students, and other centers
on campus, positioning the library as a key partner. Responsibilities of
the successful candidate will include developing and providing training
to faculty, students, and staff on obtaining, creating, and using
geospatial data for research; consulting with faculty and students on
projects incorporating geospatial data, tools, and analysis;
collaborating on Library and University initiatives to develop spatial
delivery environments and geospatial information management systems; and
engaging with the scholars on grounds to increase awareness of the
Library's geospatial, data, and subject expertise.
  
Required: 

-   A Masters' degree in a geospatial or geostatistical discipline or
    relevant discipline. 
-   Experience in public service. Experience in a position focused on
    supporting academic uses of geographic information systems. 
-   Teaching experience in GIS and/or geostatistical methods and
    practices.  Competence in presenting complex technical knowledge to
    undergraduate and graduate students as well as faculty and staff.  
-   Excellent communication skills.    
-   Familiarity with either (1) ESRI software, including ArcGIS Desktop
    and ArcGIS Online and in open-source solutions for GIS data
    management and use, or (2) concepts and theories of spatial
    statistics and implementation of spatial models in R or SAS.   

 

Preferred: 

-   Experience in a University setting. 
