+++
nid = "6356"
jid = "00302"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-02-24 12:08"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6356"
title = "Research Data Specialist"
employer = "Purdue University"
employerurl = "http://www.purdue.edu/"
postdate = "2015-02-24"
archivedate = "2015-02-24"
draft = "false"
+++
This position requires an entrepreneurial team player that will serve as
a primary resource in consultation and problem solving with researchers
in data access, management, curation and dissemination. The Data
Specialist will work closely with researchers to evaluate data and
information needs, and help develop solutions for those needs. S/he will
collaborate with Research Data and other librarians to provide expertise
in consultation and problem solving around data issues and
challenges.The Data Specialist will help design and implement scalable,
sustainable, and domain-appropriate techniques, tools and systems to
address questions in data curation and data management in support of
research at Purdue University. In addition to working in these areas,
s/he will engage in related research and scholarship, and will help
develop and participate in data information literacy.
  
Required Qualifications: MLS from an ALA-accredited library school or a
PhD in a relevant discipline. Familiarity with, and commitment to, the
discovery, use, and management of data, and demonstrable knowledge of
issues, trends, and current applications of the role of data in research
and scholarly communication. Experience or understanding of assessing
and addressing needs of information and data of domain researchers.
Evidence of a proactive, user-centered vision for services; strong
interpersonal and communication skills; demonstrated ability to work
collaboratively. Outstanding written and oral communication and
interpersonal skills essential. Commitment to engage in research and
scholarship, and ability to achieve promotion and tenure.

Desired qualifications: Experience working with repositories or
archives. Degree or coursework in science, social science or
computer/information science. Record of scholarship and instruction in
areas related to data curation or scientific or technical research.
Experience working with and/or teaching diverse groups/diverse students.
