+++
nid = "6812"
jid = "00353"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-09-02 11:48"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6812"
title = " Data Repository Outreach Specialist"
employer = "Purdue University"
employerurl = "http://www.purdue.edu/"
postdate = "2015-09-02"
archivedate = "2015-09-02"
draft = "false"
+++
The Repository Outreach Specialist works with colleagues in the
Libraries, the Office of the Executive Vice President for Research and
Partnerships, and Information Technology at Purdue to provide conduct
outreach, training, and help to coordinate the on-going operation,
support, and improvement of the Purdue University Research Repository
(PURR, <http://purr.purdue.edu>) institutional data repository service.
The position serves as the primary point of contact for PURR and
collaborates on the further development and support of PURR as well as
other initiatives of the Distributed Data Curation Center (D2C2) of the
Libraries.
  
Required:

-   Master's degree.
-   Excellent written and verbal communication skills.
-   Project management and coordination skills.
-    Excellent interpersonal, analytical, and organizational skills.
-    Ability to work independently, as well as collaboratively, in a
    dynamic organization and environment.
-   Ability to lift and carry 10 pounds frequently and 20 pounds
    occasionally.


Preferred:

-   MLS (Masters of Library Science) from an ALA-accredited institution.
-   Experience preparing and giving presentations or training.
-   Experience working in an academic research environment or managing
    research outputs.
-   Knowledge of current issues and developments in library and archival
    science in the domain of research data curation and scholarly
    communication.
-   Ability to create and deliver effective presentations for outreach
    and training.
-   Ability to interact with faculty, staff and students from different
    disciplines and backgrounds.
-   Ability to plan, execute, and document effective practices,
    projects, services, and policies related to research data
    management.
