+++
nid = "6792"
jid = "00351"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-08-17 12:25"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6792"
title = "Associate Director, Data Management Program"
employer = "University of California, Davis"
employerurl = "http://ucdavis.edu/"
postdate = "2015-08-15"
archivedate = "2015-08-17"
draft = "false"
+++
When you see a reference to a dataset, do you immediately start thinking
about how to visualize it? Or how it might be accessed by other
researchers and students? Do you want to help figure out how to model
data schema for an
entire research university? Come work with us!

Under general direction of the Director, Online Strategy, the Associate
Director, Data Management Program provides leadership and expertise for
research data management across the Library, serving the entire UC Davis
community.

Responsible for development, implementation, and leadership of a program
that enables the Library to contribute to the management and
accessibility of the university's research outputs, including support
of funding agency requirements.

Work closely with personnel in other Library units, including Digital
Scholarship, Research Services, Collection Services, and other Online
Strategies units. Work with campus departments including Data Sciences
Initiative, IT departments on the Davis and Sacramento campuses, Offices
of Research and Medical Research, and major research computing
facilities in the schools and colleges.

Develop, coordinate, deliver, promote, and evaluate data management
services. Consult with faculty, students, and research personnel on a
broad range of data use and management issues, including data
description, discovery, citation and reuse, ownership and sharing,
visualization, preservation, and archiving.

Lead and manage a small professional group recruited or assigned to the
program.  



  
Minimum Qualifications:

-   Bachelor's degree in data or information management, computer
    science, librarianship or information technology, along with
    relevant experience, or an equivalent combination of relevant
    knowledge, training and experience.
-   Experience in the development, coordination, delivery and promotion
    of information, research or data management services, preferably in
    a university environment. 
-   Experience with institutional or subject based data repository
    systems, and tools for managing digital assets and repository
    software, such as Fedora, DMP Tool, Figshare, REDCap, Dataverse,
    Amazon Glacier, GitHub, and similar services.
-   Knowledge of data description and metadata standards, including
    identifier schemes such as DOI, and relevant content transmission
    and retrieval protocols, such as OAI-ORE, RSS/ATOM, ORCID, and
    others. 
-   Knowledge of data-driven research, scholarly communication, and the
    technical and social aspects of data management. 
-   Knowledge of issues and technical challenges and solutions related
    to the life cycle of research data, including storage, publication,
    and preservation. 
-   Skills to lead, build consensus and promote the exchange of
    information among teams in a complex organization, and an ability to
    work independently and with initiative, set priorities, and balance
    the demands of a complex working environment. 
-   Communication, interpersonal, and negotiation skills to engage with
    people in different settings, and to explain technical concepts to
    laypeople. 
-   Supervisory experience.  

Preferred Qualifications:

-   Experience with ongoing and sustained professional engagement, such
    as service in data-focused organizations, presentations at
    conferences, and publication.
-   Experience with data analysis tools, data mining techniques, and
    data storage architectures. 
-   Experience with at least one script oriented programming language or
    framework, such as Ruby on Rails, Python, PHP, or similar. 
-   Knowledge of U.S. intellectual property rights law, with an emphasis
    on copyright issues as they apply to data.
-   Experience with data visualization tools such as D3.js, OpenLayers,
    Neo4j, ImageJ, and so forth.
-   Experience using geospatial tools, data description, and timelines
    such as OpenStreetMap, MapZen, GDAL, and PostGIS.
