+++
nid = "6394"
jid = "00325"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-05-28 15:10"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6394"
title = "Data Services Librarian"
employer = "Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City"
employerurl = "https://www.kansascityfed.org/"
postdate = "2015-05-27"
archivedate = "2015-05-28"
draft = "false"
+++
[ ]{.text}

Collaborates and consults with Bank staff, including research staff, on
the selection, research, acquisition, documentation, organization, and
storage of information.

**Key Activities:
**• Develop and maintain knowledge about relevant research data options
and consult with research staff on data needs, documenting requirements
and merit evaluation of data.
• Develop and maintain an understanding of data and the research
landscape.
• Build relationships with users and Legal/Procurement staff to
effectively bridge legal and technical requirements for data access,
ensuring appropriate use, storage, and disposition of data and
derivative works.
• Become familiar with data citation and linking work to be able to
maintain data citation database.
• Build relationships with and understanding of the technology staff and
platforms.
• Develop and maintain relationships with data providers, coordinating
training as needed.
• Develop and maintain expertise in research data management planning.
  
[• Master's degree from ALA-accredited institution in Library Science
required; coursework emphasizing data-related services or reference work
preferred. Alternatively, an advanced degree in a data-intensive
research field and minimum one year of relevant experience in an
academic or research setting would be considered.
• Familiarity with social science research methodology, tools, and data
sources a plus.
• Strong customer service focus.
• Willingness to learn new skills, including project management.]{.text}
