+++
nid = "6349"
jid = "00298"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-01-14 15:26"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6349"
title = "Library Assistant, Research Support Services"
employer = "London School of Economics and Political Science"
employerurl = "https://www.lse.ac.uk/"
postdate = "2015-01-14"
archivedate = "2015-01-14"
draft = "false"
+++
The Academic Services Group supports the research, teaching and learning
of the School by identifying the information needs of its members and,
within the resources available, ensuring access to information sources
which meet them. It is responsible for liaison with academic
departments, leads the Library information and digital literacy skills
training and provides a range of research support services. Library
Assistants are assigned to a team supporting one area of work within the
Group. In addition to specific responsibilities within their team,
Library Assistants contribute to the delivery of a core public service
and are responsible for a range of clerical duties across the Library,
including staffing busy service points.

The post is part of the Research Support Services team and will work
with colleagues to provide support to the School's institutional
repositories, LSE Research Online and LSE Theses Online. In this
fast-moving area of library and information provision, a high degree of
flexibility is required and the post holder may be required to work on
other related initiatives as the need arises.

Specific Responsibilities:

-   Working with all the members of the Research Support Services Team
    to provide liaison and administrative support for LSE Research
    Online and LSE Theses Online and to ensure that incoming queries are
    dealt with effectively and in a timely manner, redirecting to
    colleagues where appropriate.
-   Liaising with the Discovery and Metadata Team to ensure that records
    and full text are added to LSE Research Online and LSE Theses Online
    in an accurate and timely manner and working with the Open Access
    Officer to ensure that Gold open access papers deposited in LSE
    Research Online comply with funder policies.
-   Develop awareness of copyright issues and publisher policies for
    institutional repositories and the ability to check copyright
    permissions for open access research outputs to be added LSE
    Research Online and LSE Theses Online.
-   Develop familiarity and keep up to date with changes related to
    funder requirements for open access to research outputs in
    institutional repositories.
-   To quality check and edit data about research outputs of LSE staff
    in LSE Research Online to a high standard of accuracy and in the
    prescribed format.
-   Working with the Academic Support Librarian (Research Support
    Services) and other colleagues to ensure that the Library is able to
    meet data requirements for reporting on research activity as
    required.
-   Updating publications details, identifying full text additions and
    resolving copyright issues related to LSE Research Online and LSE
    Theses Online.
-   To compile statistics and reports relating to the repositories on a
    monthly basis and to share with colleagues as appropriate.
-   Help to promote the services provided by Research Support Services
    and the Library to a range of LSE user groups including academics,
    researchers and students.
-   Contribute to the writing of reports and briefings under the
    guidance and direction of the Research Support Services Manager.
-   Liaising with academic staff, academic support staff and with
    publishers regarding the addition of content to LSE Research Online.
-   Liaising with PhD students and the Research Degrees Unit about the
    addition of theses to LSE Theses Online.
  
-   You will be educated to 'A' level standard or equivalent.
-   You should be an excellent communicator with a proven ability to
    relate to a wide range of users and academic colleagues.
-   You will be well organised and self-motivated with experience of
    team working and an ability to take initiative and solve problems.
-   Experience of working in higher education and an understanding of
    the research needs of staff and an interest in open access would be
    an advantage.
