+++
nid = "6390"
jid = "00322"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-05-13 10:45"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6390"
title = "Academic Support Librarian "
employer = "London School of Economics"
employerurl = ""
postdate = "2015-05-13"
archivedate = "2015-05-13"
draft = "false"
+++
The Academic Services Group supports research and teaching at the School
by identifying information needs and ensuring access to services and
collections to enhance teaching and research. Close liaison with
academic departments and a proactive approach are vital to the Group's
success. The postholder is responsible for the management of the
School's open access repositories, LSE Research Online and LSE Theses
Online, and the advocacy of the School's open access agenda and provides
a liaison service for academic departments in the School.

The initial focus of the post is expected to be on the areas listed
below. This is a rapidly developing area and some of the specific
responsibilities of this post are likely to change and develop over
time.
  
Essential:

-   CILIP-recognised professional qualification in
    librarianship/information science or currently working towards
    completion.
-   Post qualification experience working in a library or similar
    customer service environment, preferably in higher education.
-   Knowledge of scholarly communications,including traditional and
    emerging modes of publishing, routes to open access and copyright.
-   Experience of working with and developing institutional/digital
    repositories or publications management via a CRIS.
-   Experience of managing and promoting a service, including designing
    and implementing processes and workflows.
-   Evidence of providing improvements and enhancements to service
    delivery, particularly in the area of open access,
    scholarly communications or research support.
-   Demonstrated ability to communicate effectively with a range of
    Library users and colleagues at all levels of seniority.
-   Demonstrated ability to work with others as part of a team.
-   Proven ability to liaise with researchers, colleagues from across an
    organisation and representatives of external organisations to
    support the development of a service.
-   Demonstrated awareness of a range of planning techniques, for
    example planning development priorities, personal time
    management and operational planning.
-   Problem-solving skills, for example identifying a problem,
    investigating and following through to a solution, by liaising
    with appropriate contacts.

 

Desired:

-   Knowledge of funder open access policies.
-   Evidence of the ability to give presentations to groups of
    colleagues and/or users to explain or promote an initiative or
    service.
-   Demonstrated ability to work effectively in cross-institutional
    projects or working groups.
-   Experience of having line management responsibility for staff.
-   Demonstrated experience of an advocacy role and demanding
    negotiating and influencing skills.
-   Experience of planning and managing a service and/or promotional
    events.
