+++
nid = "6361"
jid = "00306"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-03-16 16:14"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6361"
title = "GIS Librarian"
employer = "Yale University"
employerurl = " www.yale.edu"
postdate = "2015-03-16"
archivedate = "2015-03-16"
draft = "false"
+++
Reporting to the Associate Director of Public Services at the Center for
Science and Social Science Information, the GIS Librarian acquires and
provides support in the discovery, use, and management of locally
created and externally available GIS data and tools in collaboration
with data librarians and subject specialist librarians. The incumbent
works with others to develop scalable, sustainable, and
domain-appropriate GIS services in support of research at Yale. The
Librarian is responsible for providing support for GIS services through
reference, research consultations, online help guides, newsletters, and
other outreach efforts. The incumbent provides a robust program of GIS
instruction and continuously develops workshops and online help
materials to keep pace with the latest software versions, online tools,
and techniques. The Librarian acts as the primary consultant for the
current suite of ESRI software and is responsible, in collaboration with
other Library staff, for optimizing functions for discovery and
preservation of GIS data and its associated metadata in library
catalogs, data archives/repositories, and similar systems. The incumbent
provides assistance with global positioning technology hardware and
software and may assist with other research support services. The GIS
Librarian participates in library-wide committees and workgroups as
appropriate and contributes to research support and instruction program
planning and implementation in the Map Department, the Center for
Science and Social Science Information, and other units of the Library.
The GIS Librarian is responsible for staying abreast of the latest
updates in GIS accessibility, software, hardware, and analysis
techniques and may represent YUL to state, national and international
GIS organizations.

*Qualified individuals new to the library profession are welcome to
apply.*
  
**Required Education, Skills and Experience:**

-   Master's degree from an ALA-accredited library school, or
    equivalent combination of relevant advanced degree and experience.
-   Experience working collegially, collaboratively, and independently
    with varied groups, within and across a complex organization and a
    rapidly changing, team environment.
-   Demonstrated ability with a variety of geospatial processing
    software. Demonstrated ability with the array of ESRI ArcGIS
    software including desktop, server, mobile, and online versions.
-   Demonstrated ability with metadata for geospatial data and
    cartographic materials.
-   Demonstrated ability to develop and deliver GIS instruction and
    research support services.
-   Excellent oral and written communication skills; demonstrated
    analytical and organizational skills. Demonstrated ability to design
    projects and bring them to a timely conclusion.  Demonstrated
    ability to work both independently and in a team environment.

**Preferred Education, Skills and Experience**: 

A degree in Geography, GIS, or related field. Experience with relational
databases and geodatabase management. Experience managing an ESRI site
license. Programming or scripting experience for GIS applications.
Experience providing research assistance in an academic environment.
