+++
nid = "6823"
jid = "00364"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-10-05 15:14"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6823"
title = "Associate Head of Collection Management for Research Engagement"
employer = "NC State University"
employerurl = "https://www.ncsu.edu/"
postdate = "2015-10-01"
archivedate = "2015-10-05"
draft = "false"
+++
The NCSU Libraries invites applications and nominations for the position
of Associate Head of Collection Management for Research
Engagement** **to join the department's management team.  In the
Collection Management department, subject specialist librarians develop,
maintain, and promote user-focused, demand-driven, and network-based
collections that reflect the strengths of the university. Working in a
rapidly evolving scholarly communication environment, they apply their
knowledge of emerging technologies, disciplinary content, data,
bibliometric and computational analysis, and visualization, supporting
and partnering with faculty and students in creative and innovative
ways.

 

**The Associate Head of Collection Management for Research Engagement**

-   Shares management responsibility for the department; directly
    supervises three librarians; represents the department in the
    absence of the Head.
-   Helps lead ongoing efforts to re-envision the role of subject
    specialist librarians; provides guidance, direction, support, and
    assessment.
-   Advances efforts to engage faculty across the research enterprise,
    with particular focus on developing the Libraries as a locus for
    open science support.
-   Participates in efforts to connect faculty with high-technology
    spaces and with services related to large-scale visualization, data
    management, and interactive computing.
-   Works closely with researchers in the creation and management of
    scholarship and research assets; represents the library in
    university research enterprise communities.
-   Identifies tools and technologies to enhance interdisciplinary
    collaboration, bibliometric analysis, text mining, and use of
    disciplinary repositories of data and open scholarship.
-   Participates in library planning, serves on library-wide committees,
    task forces, and teams
-   NCSU librarians are expected to be active professionally and to
    contribute to developments in the field.


  
**Required qualifications:**

-   ALA-accredited MLS, MIS, or equivalent advanced degree.
-   Experience with collection development and strategic planning for
    collections.
-   Demonstrated understanding of the life cycle of research and
    teaching.
-   Project management and/or supervisory experience.
-   Knowledge of emerging trends in digital scholarship, research data
    management, and visualization of scholarship.
-   Excellent interpersonal skills; ability to communicate clearly,
    knowledgeably, and personably, orally and in writing.
-   Ability to work independently and in a team environment.
-   Evidence of leadership and management potential.
-   Demonstrated record of ongoing professional development.

**Preferred qualifications: ** 

-   Academic background in a science discipline strongly preferred.
-   Experience with budget management.
-   Experience supporting scholarly communication, digital publishing
    and digital scholarship.
-   Experience with grant writing, grant management, or contribution to
    grant-funded projects.
