+++
nid = "6373"
jid = "00311"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2015-04-16 13:53"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6373"
title = "Research Support & Data Services Librarian "
employer = "Columbia University Libraries"
employerurl = "http://www.columbia.edu/"
postdate = "2015-04-15"
archivedate = "2015-04-16"
draft = "false"
+++
The Columbia University Libraries/Information Services invites
nominations and applications for the position of Research Support & Data
Services Librarian in the Social Sciences Libraries. The Libraries seek
an innovative, knowledgeable, and service-oriented professional to
support research and data services and technologies for the social
science disciplines. The successful applicant will be an adaptive
problem-solver familiar with social science research methodologies and
the use of quantitative and qualitative data. 

The Research Support & Data Services Librarian is responsible for
providing support for social science research, including the use of
quantitative and qualitative data and data applications, to faculty,
students, and staff, and for identifying and assisting in the
implementation of new library technologies related to social science
research and data. As a member of the team providing research and data
support in the Digital Social Science Center, the incumbent will assist
students, faculty, and researchers with social science research projects
and will aid users in finding and using qualitative and quantitative
data, including offering training and guidance in the use of data
analysis and social science research software. The incumbent will work
with colleagues within the division and across the Libraries to provide
coordinated support for research and data services and technologies and
will coordinate the efforts of the Social Sciences Division with regard
to support for undergraduate services and programming. 

Reporting to the Data Services Coordinator, the Research Support & Data
Services Librarian will engage emerging technologies and explore
innovative services to support new research methods and data
applications in the social sciences. The incumbent will assist with the
management and support of the Libraries' quantitative and qualitative
data collection, including data catalog records. The incumbent will also
participate on Libraries-wide task forces and working groups and will
represent the organization at appropriate regional and national
forums. 

One of the world's leading research universities, Columbia provides
outstanding opportunities to work and grow in a unique intellectual
community. Set in the Morningside Heights academic village, Columbia
also presents the unmatched dynamism, diversity and cultural richness of
New York City. The University Libraries, grounded in collections of
remarkable depth and breadth, are also building extensive electronic
resources and services. The Libraries at Columbia are committed to
collegiality, professionalism, innovation and leadership.
  
Required:

-   MLS or PhD or equivalent 
-   Advanced degree in a social science or related discipline such as
    economics, political science, statistics, library and information
    science, data science, etc., or an equivalent combination of
    education and experience.
-   Knowledge of or experience with social science research
    methodologies.
-   Knowledge of or experience using quantitative and qualitative data.
-   Knowledge of quantitative data analysis applications such as SPSS,
    Stata, R. etc.
-   Familiarity with web design and online services, including the
    ability to write effectively for the web.
-   Aptitude for teaching and developing instructional content and
    documentation.
-   Strong public service orientation.
-   Excellent analytical, organizational, oral and written
    communications and interpersonal skills.  

Preferred:

-   Knowledge of or experience working with qualitative research tools
    such as NVivo, Atlas.ti, etc.
-   Knowledge of or experience working with spatial analysis tools such
    as ArcGIS, QGIS, CartoDB, etc. 
-   Familiarity with programming and/or markup languages such as
    JavaScript, Python, HTML, etc. 
-   Knowledge of metadata standards for quantitative and qualitative
    data. 
-   Understanding of research data management planning. 
-   Ability to work independently with varied user groups in a complex
    organization and function collaboratively in a rapidly changing team
    environment. 
-   Experience providing research support in an academic library
    setting. 
-   Demonstrated record of success designing projects and bringing them
    to a conclusion in a timely fashion. 
