+++
nid = "7185"
jid = "00411"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-06-27 05:06"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7185"
title = "Director of the UCLA Libraries Social Science Data Archive"
employer = "University of California, Los Angeles "
employerurl = "http://www.ucla.edu/"
postdate = "2016-06-27"
archivedate = "2016-06-27"
draft = "false"
+++
The Social Science Data Archive (SSDA), in operation since 1961, is a
recognized leader in the management of quantitative social science
research data and represents UCLA in local, state, national and
international professional communities. The mission of the Social
Science Data Archive has been, and continues to be, to provide a
foundation for social science research with faculty support throughout
an entire research project involving original data collection or the
reuse of publicly available studies. Data Archive staff work in
partnerships with researchers to provide a collaborative environment
where the focus is on understanding the nature and scope of research
approach and management of research output throughout the entire life
cycle of the project.

The Social Science Data Archive is heavily focused on the long term
management of unique research data gathered using quantitative methods.
This includes providing Data Quality Review, and processes at each step
of the archival process, including appraisal, ingest, metadata
preparation, development of discovery and access tools, online analysis,
and ensuring long term usability.

Instructional support, especially support that links research with
instruction, is also a mainstay of operations. The Social Science Data
Archive is one of the key support components in those disciplines that
provide instruction in research methods, survey design and methods,
statistics, and data analysis. Throughout the campus, data provided by
the Archive is used by faculty in courses to transmit pedagogy,
illustrate theory and develop understanding of social, political,
demographic, economic, geographic and historical trends and issues.

Position Duties
The Director of the UCLA Libraries Social Science Data Archive is
responsible for planning, coordinating, and deploying research data
services directed at supporting the research lifecycle. This includes
creating and implementing data management assistance for the campus,
outreach to faculty in collaboration with subject specialists,
informationists, training, and assessment of SSDA programs and services.
The SSDA operates in 4 key areas: 1) Data Curation and Preservation 2)
Consultation and Services, 3) Technical Infrastructure, 4) and
Education, Awareness and Community Building. The responsibilities of the
Director of the UCLA Libraries Social Science Data Archive will fall in
all key areas; the initial focus of this position will be to contribute
to the development of the data repository in collaboration with
colleagues and stakeholders, in the library and across campus.

In addition, the Director of the UCLA Libraries Social Science Data
Archive is responsible for data curation, preservation and research data
management activities. The director provides oversight, encourages
collaboration and innovation, and ensures the successful stewardship and
sustainability of the Social Science Data Archive services, and
initiatives intended to respond to the scholarly research needs of UCLA
faculty, students, and staff.

Programmatic and Technical Oversight

-   Oversees SSDA operational and administrative activities, with the
    goal of creating innovative and sustainable data curation services
    in support of research scholarship.
-   In collaboration with key partners, acts as the Social Science Data
    Archive point person for the data archive.
-   Investigates integrative infrastructures to connect campus needs to
    the archive.
-   Designs and implements workflows, and executes technical processes
    involved in managing the lifecycle of digital research datasets
    including data transformation projects.
-   Participates in research data management consultations, data
    curation activities (including, data quality review, disclosure
    analysis, appraisal, ingest, metadata creation, discovery and access
    tool use, to ensure long term usability, including format
    migration), and the development of resources, documentation and
    instructional content about data curation.
-   Participates in selected cross-library working groups to create and
    improve services.
-   Builds and maintains functional relationships with inter-university
    consortia and develops methods to leverage their services and
    offerings.

Community Engagement

-   Communication of, consultation on, and advocacy for SSDA and UCLA
    Library's activities to University stakeholders and national and
    international communities of common concern and practice.
-   Develops and encourages ongoing dialogue with UCLA colleagues and
    the users of SSDA tools and services; actively partner with UCLA
    librarians to promote service awareness and adoption.
-   Pursues opportunities for UCLA to engage strategically with emerging
    "open" communities, such as open source technology, open access
    publishing, and open data.
-   Serves as a consultant to researchers and librarians on data issues
    and services.
-   Performs data management planning and research data curation with
    principal investigators and researchers.
-   Assists in the development and delivery of training and
    instructional materials on data curation.
-   Provides guidance and instruction on discovery, acquisition and use
    of research data in the public domain.
  
Required Qualifications

-   ALA-accredited Master's Degree in Library or Information Science,
    data science, computer science, or related area OR significant
    graduate-level coursework toward such a degree OR equivalent
    education and experience (subject expertise combined with
    professional library education and/or experience).
-   Demonstrated expertise in digital library, data curation, research
    data management, and scholarly communication theory and practice.
-   Familiarity with technology issues and best practices in data
    archives and data repositories libraries and/or higher education,
    such as systems administration, programming, digitization, and
    digital scholarship.
-   Excellent collaboration, networking and community engagement
    skills. 
-   Ability to work within a group setting, facilitate discussion and
    build consensus.
-   Excellent written and oral communication skills, including engaging
    presentation skills and the ability to connect dynamically with an
    audience.
-   Demonstrated record of initiating, leading or actively participating
    in successful collaborative activities within the data archive and
    digital library community at large.
-   Familiarity with a broad range of data and archive management
    software packages, and ability to train others to use them.
-   Strong familiarity with the OAIS and ISO 14721 reference models, and
    the ability to translate and apply their concepts to ongoing archive
    production activities.
-   Familiarity with data repository design, implementation, operations,
    and best practices.
-   Familiarity with historical data file formats, including: SAS sd2,
    SAS7bdat and SAS7bcat; STATA dta and do; SPSS sav and sps; M-PLUS
    inp; and BMDP.
-   Ability to read, use and create codebooks for archival data.
-   Demonstrated knowledge of ethical, legal and privacy issues relating
    to archival management.
-   Substantial knowledge of research methodology and skill at providing
    research assistance.
-   Knowledge of the historical contexts governing archival operations.

Desired Qualifications

-   Demonstrated understanding of data visualization techniques.
-   Experience teaching quantitative software packages and/or research
    methods.
-   Knowledge of computer science concepts including data structures and
    algorithms.
-   Experience programming with a language like Python.
-   Experience working with a Digital Asset Management System.
