+++
nid = "7283"
jid = "00445"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-11-29 07:07"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7283"
title = "Industrial Relations and Labor Economics Librarian"
employer = "Princeton University"
employerurl = "http://www.princeton.edu"
postdate = "2016-11-18"
archivedate = "2016-11-29"
draft = "false"
+++
The Library seeks an accomplished, energetic, and service-oriented
professional to serve as the primary subject specialist for the
University's collections in industrial relations and labor economics
and as theLibrary's liaison with the faculty and students of the
Industrial Relations Section. The Industrial Relations Section (part of
the Economics Department) focuses on teaching and research in areas of
labor economics, education economics, unemployment and racial
discrimination, unionization, and the effects on minimum wages and labor
turnover. More information: <http://www.irs.princeton.edu>

Duties include managing the Library's industrial relations collections
and providing specialized reference and research consultation services
for Industrial Relations Section faculty, students and affiliates; the
selection of materials in all formats for the Library's collections in
the fields of industrial relations, labor economics, and human resources
management; serving as the primary contact for quantitative labor
economics research; overseeing the production of Selected References, a
broadly distributed annual bibliography produced by the Industrial
Relations Section focusing on contemporary labor. The post holder also
works closely with other subject specialists and public services
librarians on collection development and instructional and research
services and represents Princeton in relevant regional, national and
international professional and scholarly organizations. The successful
applicant will report to the Associate University Librarian for Research
and Instructional Services.
  
**Required Qualifications:**

-   An ALA-accredited Master's degree in library/information science OR
    equivalent combination of education and professional experience.
-   An academic degree in a quantitative social science such as
    economics or business.
-   Strong familiarity with industrial relations and labor economics
    research and literature.
-   Professional experience relevant to reference or research services
    in an academic, corporate, or research library setting.
-   Excellent communication and interpersonal skills and ability to work
    successfully and collegially with a diverse group of scholars and
    colleagues.

**Strongly Preferred:**

-   Expertise with accessing economic, labor, and/or financial data.
-   Experience conducting bibliographic instruction or research
    consultations in an academic setting.
-   Ability to work effectively in a rapidly changing environment
