+++
nid = "7116"
jid = "00403"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-04-18 13:21"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7116"
title = "Data Architect"
employer = "The Health Foundation"
employerurl = "http://www.health.org.uk/"
postdate = "2016-04-14"
archivedate = "2016-04-18"
draft = "false"
+++
We are seeking a Data Architect to work as part of a small team of data
management specialists that combines skills in statistical programming,
information governance and data security.

This team collaborates with a wide range of internal and external
partners. Pseudonymised patient-level data are held and processed on the
Secure Data Environment (SDE), an in-house IT solution - information
governance supporting the day-to-day operation of the SDE is also the
responsibility of the data management team. A key part of the data
management strategy is the commitment to continuous improvement of data
security, both in-house and within the wider health services research
community.

The Data Architect will work closely with the statistical leads during
the R&D phase of individual evaluations, producing data specifications
and modelling files.

Since the Health Data Lab is complex and dynamic work programme, it is
essential to be adaptive and to seek to improve approaches to data
management over time.

Applicants should have a track record in data manipulation techniques, a
thorough understanding of data security and an understanding of
statistical methods, and the ability to write for a range of audiences.

**Key tasks and responsibilities**

1.  Work collaboratively with Health Data Lab partners, including
    academic teams, NHS England and the temporary National Repository.
2.  Quality control incoming data and apply standardised data cleaning
    where appropriate.
3.  Maintain metadata and data dictionaries for data sets, managing
    version control and documentation.
4.  Create variables required for the Health Data Lab analyses, with
    agreed variable and value labels.
5.  Produce data specifications for evaluations and data extracts.
6.  Work collaboratively with statistical teams to incorporate
    approaches to statistical analysis within the production
    environment, ultimately ensuring that these analyses can be
    replicated within the production environment on a regular basis.
7.  Promote an open approach to collaboration, working with teams
    external to the Health Foundation to arrange appropriate access to
    data.
8.  Contribute towards the analysis of data sets and the writing of
    reports and research articles.
9.  Travel as needed, predominately within the four countries of the
    United Kingdom.
10. Collaborate as part of a multi-organisational team. 
  
**Knowledge and experience**

1.  Knowledge and demonstrable practical experience of data manipulation
    techniques
2.  An understanding of governance arrangements for administrative data
    sources in the United Kingdom, and an ability to learn and
    understand requirements specific to the health sector.
3.  A thorough understanding of data security.
4.  Experience of working with various suppliers of information on
    health and social care, such as the Health and Social Care
    Information Centre or other NHS organisations.
5.  Experience of working in data security and data governance.
6.  An understanding of statistical concepts and data linking
    methodologies.
7.  Experience of conducting analyses using large data sets, such as
    administrative or survey data.

**Skills and abilities**

1.  Ability to work in a diverse team and to take account of a wide
    range of views and opinions when making decisions.
2.  Time management and prioritisation skills together with an organised
    and methodical approach to work
3.  A can-do attitude and resilience.
4.  Proficient in statistical or data management software to an advanced
    level, ideally SAS and R.
5.  Excellent analytical skills.
6.  Corporate approach to the post with a willingness to further the
    objectives of the Foundation.
7.  A person who is collegiate with proven ability to work across teams
    successfully.
8.  A person who is flexible, respectful of colleagues, and adaptable.
9.  A person who is open, communicative, and approachable to all staff
    across the organisation irrespective of role or seniority.
10. An understanding of, and commitment to, equal opportunities and
    diversity.
