+++
nid = "6878"
jid = "00385"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-01-19 18:04"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6878"
title = "Data Visualization Services Librarian"
employer = "UNC Chapel Hill"
employerurl = "http://www.unc.edu/"
postdate = "2016-01-13"
archivedate = "2016-01-19"
draft = "false"
+++
UNC Chapel Hill invites applications for the position of Data
Visualization Services Librarian in the Digital Research Services
department. Based in the Davis Library Research Hub, the Data
Visualization Services Librarian is responsible for expanding data
analysis and visualization services in support of teaching and research.

The Data Visualization Services Librarian:

-   Advises, consults, instructs, and serves as technical lead on data
    visualization projects with UNC students and faculty from all
    academic disciplines.
-   Identifies, evaluates and recommends new and emerging digital
    research tools for the Libraries and UNC research community.
-   Develops and supports visualization services in response to current
    trends, campus needs and Libraries priorities.
-   Shares ideas and concepts effectively across diverse
    interdisciplinary audiences and serves as the point person for data
    visualization and analysis efforts in the Libraries.
-   Develops relationships with campus units supporting digital
    research, including the Odum Institute for Research in Social
    Science.

The Data Visualization Services Librarian works with staff from the
Digital Research Services and Library Information & Technology
departments to identify hardware and software needs, and to develop
scalable, sustainable practices related to data visualization services.
The librarian designs and delivers workshops and training sessions on
data visualization tools and methods, and develops a range of
instructional materials to support patrons with data visualization
needs.

The Data Visualization Services Librarian may share some program
coordination responsibilities with other Research Hub staff and may
supervise student employees.
  
**Required**

-   ALA-accredited master's degree in Library or Information Science
    ***OR**
-  advanced degree in Geography, Sociology, Psychology,
    Design, Informatics, Statistics, or a related field.
-   Demonstrated experience with data visualization tools and
    programming libraries.
-   Proficiency with at least one programming language (such as Python,
    Ruby, JavaScript, Java, R).
-   Ability to use a variety of tools to extract and manipulate data
    from various sources (such as relational databases, XML, web
    services and APIs).
-   Demonstrated technical expertise and experience using technology to
    support research and teaching.
-   Experience providing instruction or research consultations.
-   Strong communication and interpersonal skills.
-   Strong commitment to public service.

**Preferred**

-   Experience working effectively with a team to plan and complete
    projects.
-   Background working in a large academic library.
-   Experience supporting data analysis and visualization in a research
    setting.
-   Proficiency using tools and programming libraries to support text
    analysis.
-   Familiarity with geospatial technology.
-   Experience identifying and recommending new tools or technologies.
-   Graphic design skills and proficiency using relevant software.
