+++
nid = "7269"
jid = "00436"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-10-14 05:28"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7269"
title = "Social Sciences Research & Data Librarian"
employer = "Florida State University  "
employerurl = "http://www.fsu.edu/"
postdate = "2016-10-05"
archivedate = "2016-10-14"
draft = "false"
+++
Florida State University Libraries seeks a collaborative, creative, and
service-oriented Social Sciences Research & Data Librarian to
participate in a wide range of services and professional
responsibilities in a dynamic academic environment. The Social Sciences
Research & Data Librarian will be responsible for advancing research and
scholarship at FSU by providing consultative, instructional, and
outreach services to faculty and students in the social sciences;
evaluating, selecting, and reviewing information resources to support
curricula and research needs; supporting faculty scholarship and
publication; and providing leadership in the discovery and use of
research data in the social sciences. This position is based in the
Scholars Commons, a department that works closely with faculty and
graduate students, and is a part of the Libraries' Research and
Learning Services Division.

Responsibilities:

-   Serve as a liaison to the Economics and Geography Departments and to
    selected interdisciplinary programs in the social sciences.
-   Provide specialized consultations, instruction, and outreach in
    liaison areas and in partnership with other subject librarians.
-   Develop, manage, and revise collection development policy statements
    and approval plan profiles for assigned subjects.
-   Develop collection of social sciences resources, including datasets,
    to support the University's research and teaching missions.
-   Create LibGuides, web pages, or other materials to provide
    information about research resources and data sources.
-   Serve as a functional specialist working, advising, and consulting
    on the identification and use of data in the social sciences.
-   Provide data management plan consultations and contribute to the
    development of research data management services in the social
    sciences.
-   Work collaboratively with the STEM Data & Research Librarian, and
    Technology and Digital Scholarship staff to develop a complementary
    suite of data services, a data information literacy program, and an
    internal professional development program on data for subject
    librarians.
-   Represent FSU as the designated representative for ICPSR.
-   Actively support and participate in the Libraries' scholarly
    communication activities.
-   Participate in the Libraries' virtual reference service.
-   Serve on University Libraries and/or University-wide committees.
-   Contribute to state, regional, and national professional
    organizations and participate in research, publication, and other
    professional and scholarly activities.
-   This position will require some weekend and evening hours
  
Required:

-   Master's degree in library and information science from a program
    accredited by the American Library Association or other relevant
    master's degree.
-   Ability to assess curricular and research needs in assigned subjects
    sufficient to select materials and build library services to meet
    those needs.
-   Demonstrated subject knowledge and experience in social sciences,
    including understanding of issues related to social sciences
    research, scholarly publishing, and research data.
-   Familiarity with social sciences data sources, such as ICPSR, Social
    Explorer, and open government data sources.
-   Strong grasp of current issues, trends, and technologies impacting
    higher education and academic libraries.
-   Ability to plan, coordinate, and implement effective programs,
    complex projects, and services.
-   Creative and analytical thinking skills and good problem solving
    ability.
-   Ability to communicate effectively in writing and verbally.
-   Demonstrated ability to work independently and to collaborate
    effectively with staff at all levels and with people of diverse
    backgrounds.
-   Flexibility in adapting to changing organizational priorities and
    technological environments.
-   Ability to meet the library's requirement for scholarship, service,
    and leadership.
-   High level of professionalism and commitment to the organization and
    its mission

Preferred:

-   Minimum of two years professional experience in an academic or
    research library.
-   A degree in geography, economics, or another data-related social
    sciences field. 
-   Basic working knowledge of statistical software, such as SPSS,
    Stata, or SAS. 
-   Familiarity with GIS tools and services. 
-   Experience with data management plans to support public access
    mandates Demonstrated experience in supervising staff and
    coordinating workflows . 
-   Experience writing, obtaining, and managing grants
