+++
nid = "6873"
jid = "00382"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-01-08 13:21"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6873"
title = "Research Data Coordinator"
employer = "King's College London"
employerurl = "http://www.kcl.ac.uk/index.aspx"
postdate = "2016-01-05"
archivedate = "2016-01-08"
draft = "false"
+++
We are recruiting for the post of Research Data Coordinator to join the
Research Support team in the Collections & Research Support Department
of Library Services. Library Services is a key division within the
Directorate of Students & Education at King's College London, supporting
the institution's teaching, learning, research and administrative
activity.

This role will involve coordinating and supporting the development of
the university's Research Data Management (RDM) service. It is a new
two-year fixed-term post to help establish, manage and promote the RDM
service. The post-holder will be joining the Research Support team at an
exciting time of innovation and growth for both Library Services and the
university, with King's recognised as a world-leading research
institution ranked 7th in the 2014 Research Excellence Framework.

Under the direction of the Research Data Manager, the post-holder will
coordinate the development of the university's RDM infrastructure to
support digital curation of the university's research data outputs
throughout their lifecycle, including the management of metadata and
documentation during the active phase of research, storage of completed
datasets, preservation of digital objects and their archiving.

The Research Support team's goal is to provide an innovative and
sustainable sector leading research support service that puts
researchers first. The post holder will work collaboratively with IT,
researchers and other project stakeholders on the development of a
research data management infrastructure which supports the lifecycle of
data within the university appropriate to the needs of researchers at
King's.
  
The successful candidate will have a good understanding of research
outputs in an academic context or will have an awareness of current
issues in research data management, excellent oral and written
communication skills, a high level of IT literacy, and excellent
planning and organising skills. Experience of working in research at
university level would be advantageous. A proactive, responsive and
flexible approach to achieving shared team goals is essential.
