+++
nid = "7196"
jid = "00421"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-08-09 11:53"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7196"
title = "Research Data Support Officer"
employer = "University College London "
employerurl = "http://www.ucl.ac.uk/"
postdate = "2016-08-09"
archivedate = "2016-08-09"
draft = "false"
+++
 

UCL Research Data Services (RDS) forms part of a wider Research IT
Service portfolio in the central IT professional services, which
includes Research Computing, Research Software Development, Research
Applications and Research IT Facilitators.

Research Data Services is a large-scale data management facility
designed to meet the needs of UCL researchers and Research Councils'
requirements concerning the storage, management, preservation and re-use
of research data.  The facility consists of three primary services; data
storage, data archiving and data search & access.  The facility is
supported by the UCL Research Data Policy and enables UCL researchers to
fulfil requirements of UK funders that research data management should
be a necessary component of grant applications.

The Research Data Support Officer will deliver a range of measures to
raise awareness of the UCL RDS within UCL and to increase engagement
with the services by researchers across UCL disciplines.  In particular,
the post holder will work to promote and embed best practice in research
data management in the workflows of UCL's researchers; they will
co-ordinate a range of training, guidance and outreach activities for
researchers in support of data management planning; and they will
catalyse the development of relevant professional skills and experience
within UCL Library Services.  They will work to embed on-going support
for research data management in the work of the Library's Liaison teams
and the Research IT Facilitators.

The Research Data Support Officer will work as part of a small team
based in UCL Library Services, as a member of the Liaison and Support
Team.  The post holder will liaise with UCL researchers directly, and
will also work closely with several established teams, contributing
advice, guidance and decision-making about aspects of the data
management life-cycle. 
  
Essential:

-   Knowledge of research data management and the research data
    life-cycle, including the issues and challenges around management,
    curation and preservation of digital data, as they apply to
    different research disciplines
-   Understanding of the Higher Education environment and the policies
    and requirements of research funders as they relate to research data
-   Knowledge of DCC guidelines and other examples of good practice in
    data management within the Higher Education sector
-   Experience of successful proactive liaison with academic staff
-   Practical experience of developing and delivering training and
    supporting materials, including web-based documentation.
-   Experience delivering professional communication using social media
-   Good oral and written communication skills, with the ability to
    express complex information succinctly and clearly to a lay
    audience.
-   Ability to work effectively in a collaborative environment alongside
    Library staff, IT staff and the research community
-   Excellent organisational skills, and ability to manage effectively a
    varied workload and competing priorities.
-   Able to work on own initiative.

Desired:

-   Knowledge of open access repositories and the issues that relate to
    open access to research data
-   Familiarity with digital library metadata standards and protocols
-   Experience of planning and delivering campaigns for
    awareness-raising or the promotion of services.
