+++
nid = "6875"
jid = "00384"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-01-08 13:28"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6875"
title = "DIGITAL SCHOLARSHIP LIBRARIAN"
employer = "Georgia State University Library"
employerurl = "http://library.gsu.edu/"
postdate = "2016-01-06"
archivedate = "2016-01-08"
draft = "false"
+++
Georgia State University Library seeks a collegial, entrepreneurial, and
hands-on Digital Scholarship Librarian skilled at using technology to
support interdisciplinary digital projects in a wide array of subject
areas, including but not limited to the digital humanities. The Digital
Scholarship Librarian will be engaged in the exploration of new forms of
online scholarship, and in partnering with scholars on the development,
implementation, assessment, enhancement and maintenance of sustainable
digital projects.

The successful candidate will partner with university faculty and staff,
and with colleagues and units within the library, to lead digital
scholarship projects. Projects may involve the use of data sets, spatial
analytical tools and interactive maps, text mining and qualitative
analysis, 3D visualization and modeling, and designing online exhibits,
among other possibilities. The ideal candidate has strong project
management skills, and is open to experimentation, expanding the
research library's role, and exploring new faculty collaborations
outside the library to further digital scholarship, new forms of
publishing, and scholarly engagement. Georgia State University
librarians hold non-tenure track faculty rank and are expected to engage
in service and scholarly activities.
  
Required Qualifications:

-   ALA-accredited Master's degree in Library and/or Information
    Science, or related graduate degree and experience.
-   Knowledge of research tools and technologies in digital scholarship
    (e.g., digitization, text mining, data visualization, mapping, image
    analysis, etc.).
-   Ability to work collaboratively with multiple stakeholders in order
    to manage digital scholarship projects.
-   Strong understanding of current issues and research in digital
    scholarship and new forms of publishing.
-   Excellent communication, presentation, and interpersonal skills.
-   Ability to pass a background check.

Preferred Qualifications:

-   Two (2) years of experience in an academic library, special library,
    or digital scholarship center
-   Additional advanced degree in a relevant subject area
-   Experience with digital scholarship platforms (e.g. Fedora, Omeka,
    DHP Press, etc.)
-   Experience in project management
-   Experience with grant writing
-   Demonstrated ability to participate in professional activity and
    scholarship
