+++
nid = "6894"
jid = "00392"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-02-18 20:23"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6894"
title = "Data Management Consultant"
employer = "Johns Hopkins University"
employerurl = "https://www.jhu.edu/"
postdate = "2016-02-10"
archivedate = "2016-02-18"
draft = "false"
+++
Provide consultative data management planning support and training to
JHU researchers. Maintain rich understanding of data management best
practices for data sharing and archiving. Track funder sharing policies
and compliance expectations. Support researchers in identifying research
data sharing and archiving solutions, including deposit into the JHU
Data Archive.

Responsibilities: Responsibilities:

-   Manage inquiries from researchers for data management planning
    support.
-   Provide consultative support to JHU researchers including evaluation
    of data planning needs, assessing options for sharing data, catering
    planning to specific granting agency or publisher requirements, and
    editing data management plans.
-   Track specific scientific domain areas building knowledge and
    expertise in data types, formats, and needs within domains. Identify
    data standards, metadata standards, best practices for data
    management, etc. to continuously build expertise and improve
    provision of service.
-   Maintain knowledge on a broad range of data repositories including
    their submission, Intellectual Property, and use arrangements, and
    provide guidance on repository selection for deposit.
-   Develop and deliver data management training programs including
    training materials, for in-person and online training delivery.
-   Proactively collaborate and coordinate with JHUDMS team to implement
    data management plans, including coordinating data deposits with
    researchers and preparing collections for archiving in the JHU Data
    Archive.
-   Collaborate with colleagues throughout the university libraries and
    research administration to effectively communicate services to
    faculty, researchers, and departments.
-   Manage short and long-term communications and relationships with
    researchers and students, including outreach and training in data
    management best practices.
-   Liaise with JHU-wide staff and administrators to support the
    continued integration and visibility of data management services
    available to researchers.
  
**Required**

Masters of Science, Engineering, Advanced degree in Health Sciences, or
Library and Information Science. A minimum of three (3) years combined
of library, information technology, informatics, and/or scientific
research experience.

Special Knowledge and Skills:

-   Experience with one or more components of the research data life
    cycle: creation, processing, analyzing, preserving, providing access
    to, and re-using. Experience with software supporting any of these
    research components or data archiving.
-   Must be self-motivated, pro-active, willing to take on new
    challenges and solve problems with minimal supervision.
-   Good listener with a high degree of customer orientation.
-   Superb people skills, strong team-orientation, and professional
    attitude.
-   Clear and consistent communicator.
-   Strong writing skills.
-   Strong project planning, management, and execution skills.
-   Demonstrated ability to work with and easily adapt to new
    technology.

 **Preferred Qualifications**

-   Experience working with scientific or health sciences data
    management and/or data curation and archiving.
-   Experience working with life sciences research data, especially
    those in medical disciplines with human subjects.
-   Experience conducting trainings and workshop presentations.
-   Experience with online instructional technologies.
