+++
nid = "7115"
jid = "00402"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-04-18 13:17"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7115"
title = "Data Manager"
employer = "The Health Foundation"
employerurl = "http://www.health.org.uk/"
postdate = "2016-04-14"
archivedate = "2016-04-18"
draft = "false"
+++
We are seeking a Data Manager to work together with the Senior Data
Manager to develop and deliver an ambitious data management agenda. They
will have the opportunity to engage with a wide network of organisations
and other key stakeholders in the data field. A key part of the data
management agenda is the commitment to continuous improvement of data
security, both in-house and within the wider health services research
community.

Although the Data Manager is expected to work collaboratively with
analysts across the data analytics team, the main focus of this role
will be supporting the Health Data Lab.

The post holder will be collaborating closely with Health Data Lab
partners on data management and will be responsible for a regular and
secure flow of data from data controllers to the Health Foundation's
Secure Data Environment, as well as quality control on incoming data and
applying standardised data cleaning to regularly used datasets. The Data
Manager will work with a variety of data controllers, Caldicott
guardians, information governance specialists and existing research
networks such as the Administrative Data Research Network.

Applicants should have a first class track record in data management, a
thorough understanding of data security and an understanding of
statistical methods, and the ability to write for a range of audiences.
  
**Knowledge and experience**

1.  An understanding of governance arrangements for administrative data
    sources in the United Kingdom, and an ability to learn and
    understand requirements specific to the health sector.
2.  A thorough understanding of data security.
3.  Experience of working with various suppliers of information on
    health and social care, such as the Health and Social Care
    Information Centre or other NHS organisations.
4.  Experience of working in data security and data governance.
5.  An understanding of statistical concepts and data linking
    methodologies.
6.  Experience of conducting analyses using large data sets, such as
    administrative or survey data.
7.  An interest in Statistical Disclosure Control techniques, and the
    ability to learn, understand and apply these.

**Skills and abilities**

1.  Ability to work in a diverse team and to take account of a wide
    range of views and opinions when making decisions.
2.  Ability to write clearly for a range of audiences, often at short
    notice.
3.  A can-do attitude and resilience.
4.  An ability to manage multiple projects.
5.  Proficient in statistical or data management software to an advanced
    level.
6.  Excellent analytical skills.
7.  Corporate approach to the post with a willingness to further the
    objectives of the Foundation.
8.  A person who is collegiate with proven ability to work across teams
    successfully.
9.  A person who is flexible, respectful of colleagues, and adaptable.
10. A person who is open, communicative, and approachable to all staff
    across the organisation irrespective of role or seniority.
11. An understanding of, and commitment to, equal opportunities and
    diversity.
