+++
nid = "7264"
jid = "00432"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-09-27 05:48"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7264"
title = "Asst/Assoc Position in STS Data Studies"
employer = "University of California, Davis "
employerurl = "https://www.ucdavis.edu/"
postdate = "2016-09-26"
archivedate = "2016-09-27"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of California, Davis invites applicants for a
tenure-track assistant professor or recently tenured associate professor
in the social studies of data and data science including the scientific,
political, social, and scholarly use and creation of data. Experience
and a genuine interest in working in a collaborative environment and
especially in collaborating with data scientists are highly desired. 

The successful applicant will be appointed in the Science and Technology
Studies Program, with expectation for cross-appointment in an emergent
multidisciplinary data science program. The appointee is expected to
actively participate in the growing interdisciplinary team of the Data
Science Initiative and to take a central role in teaching in and
developing a new Data Studies minor. Aimed at social science and
humanities students, this minor is designed to introduce students to
data science concepts and techniques, teach them to critically analyze
and contextualize data questions and results, and prepare them to
collaborate with data scientists in work environments.  Applicants
should have expertise in at least one of these areas: ethnography and
history of the scientific, political, social, and scholarly use and
creation of data, computational media, software studies, as well the
ethics, law, and policy of data. Applicants should be prepared to teach
undergraduate and graduate courses in STS and on topics related to
critical approaches to data science, data visualization, information
ethics, privacy and policy, and introductory courses in data analysis
using Excel, R, or equivalent
  
A Ph.D. in either science and technology studies, anthropology, media
studies, cultural studies, communication, sociology, or a related field
should be completed or near completion by September 19, 2017. Applicants
should be prepared to teach undergraduate and graduate courses in data
studies.
