+++
nid = "7274"
jid = "00438"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-11-08 06:33"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7274"
title = "Assistant Vice President, Treasury Data Analytics"
employer = "Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis"
employerurl = "https://www.stlouisfed.org/"
postdate = "2016-10-18"
archivedate = "2016-11-08"
draft = "false"
+++
The FRB St. Louis Treasury Division is seeking an experienced data
analytics leader who will continue to mature the data analytics function
that is tasked with completing robust analytics on federal payment data
to identify potential fraud and improper payments.  This leader will be
responsible for coordinating the activities of a group of data
scientists and data analysts in:

-   Providing data analytics services to the Treasury client, including
    trend, pattern, and predictive analyses
-   Directing the analysis and modeling of statistical relationships
    through various methods leveraging various tools.
-   Hiring data scientists and leading the data analytics team in
    formulating, articulating, and prioritizing analytics efforts.
-   Reviewing and presenting findings and recommendations related to the
    analysis and identification of improper payments, including writing
    well-structured and persuasive end products. These recommendations
    and reports must be suitable for technical and non-technical
    audiences and presented to executives in a clear and concise manner.
-   Working with IT staff to implement data analytics tools that support
    the analytics function.

**Responsibilities Include**

1. Relationship Management: Develop and maintain strong and effective
working relationships with the Treasury official(s) and appropriate
Treasury staff overseeing DNP. Develop and maintain strong and effective
working relationships with additional key stakeholders in FRB St. Louis
and FRB Kansas City.

2. Leadership and Collaboration: Provide leadership and collaborate with
all Federal Reserve districts that are involved in the specific service
or project that you are leading on behalf of Treasury. Collaborate with
others as needed to address issues and provide support to meet your
business line objectives and tactics.

3. Strategic Planning: Working collaboratively with Treasury
counterparts, develop long-term goals and short-term objectives that
support the Treasury's data analytics  direction and strategies. Develop
and update on an annual basis a three-year business and financial plan.

4. Operation and Expertise of the Business Line: Ensure that you and
your staff maintain the expertise necessary, including data analytics
expertise, to provide high-quality, ongoing support and input to
Treasury officials as they set direction for the business. Develop
policies and operational practices that enable delivery of business
results and ensure the protection of data.

5. Treasury Data Privacy and Personnel Security: Ensure that you and
your business line staff follow proper controls for all business line
information classified as Treasury Sensitive But Unclassified (SBU),
including Personally Identifiable Information (PII).

6. Budgeting: Establish financial plans that meet the on-going business
needs and manage the business within the Treasury established budget
cap.

7. Reporting: Using the appropriate template, report project and budget
status to Treasury and other stakeholders in a timely manner.

8. Performance Monitoring and Metrics Tracking: As appropriate for the
business line, establish performance/quality measures that ensure the
Treasury's needs are being met and a high level of customer satisfaction
is being maintained.

9. Performance Management: Provide direction, develop and mentor a
high-performing team of approximately 15 staff.  Accountability includes
managing and conducting performance evaluations for 3-4 direct reports
who manage the remaining staff.


-  Travel -- 10%-15%.
  
-   Possession of or the ability to obtain U.S. Secret Security
    Clearance which requires U.S. Citizenship.
-   Advanced degree with a quantitative focus such as Economics,
    Statistics, Mathematics, Decision Science or Predictive Analytics
-   10+ years experience in related field and 8+ years experience
    managing teams or leading projects
-   Strong analytical background, including extensive experience with
    predictive
-   Experience maturing a data analytics function and experience working
    within or leading a fraud analytics group is preferred
-   Strong people leadership and talent management skills including
    attracting and hiring talent, engagement with staff, and a focus on
    individual and team development.
-   A demonstrated commitment to diversity and inclusion.      
-   A demonstrated track record of innovation and driving business and
    technology strategy and results in a fast paced environment.      
-   Strong strategic thinking, critical thinking, and problem-solving
    skills required.
-   Superior level of ownership, follow-through and integrity with a
    desire to improve upon current service levels and focus on
    preciseness of final work product.
-   Proven ability to interact well with various technical teams,
    business owners and management at all levels of the organization to
    successfully deliver on changing business need.
-   Demonstrated experience in building and maintaining self-driven,
    high-performing teams.
-   Highly proficient written and verbal communication skills, including
    the ability to communicate in an articulate, concise manner to a
    wide range of audiences from Bank users to executives.
-   Strong presentation skills; ability to present and discuss
    strategies and technical information in a manner that establishes
    rapport, persuades others, and establishes understanding for
    technical and non-technical audiences
-   Actively listens, understands and values others' views
-   Ability to maintain confidentiality and appropriately handle
    sensitive information
