+++
nid = "7281"
jid = "00443"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-11-29 06:58"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7281"
title = "Director of EDINA "
employer = "University of Edinburgh"
employerurl = "http://www.ed.ac.uk/"
postdate = "2016-11-14"
archivedate = "2016-11-29"
draft = "false"
+++
This is a pivotal moment in EDINA's history, operating in the exciting
growth areas of Data Science, Digital Publishing and Educational
Software. The candidate will have a huge degree of freedom in this role
and a unique chance to shape the future of EDINA. We are seeking a
highly motivated and visionary leader to operate as an entrepreneur. 
The successful candidate will inherit an impressive existing
organisation of highly intelligent staff, developers, project managers,
research experts, service managers, research support and domain experts
in Geospatial, Publishing and Educational software and Library products
and services. The organisation has an excellent portfolio of existing
products and services with a solid and expanding customer base. You will
be able to leverage, and be a critical part of, a globally successful
and ambitious university.

Responsible for the annual budget and five-year strategic plan, the
successful candidate will identify, develop and secure external funding
and partnerships to support the national and international services,
platforms, products, best practice advice projects and innovation. As a
member of the ISG senior management team, the post-holder will have the
opportunity to contribute to the University's mission, provide
leadership and ensure close collaboration across the ISG and the
University. EDINA is a division with a headcount of around 60.

 

Overall the main responsibilities of the role are as follows:

-   Strategic leadership, vision and management for the EDINA division.
-   Strategic portfolio ownership of the suite of brands within EDINA.
-   National & International leadership both promoting the products and
    innovating to ensure their evolving best practice and success.
-   Increasing engagement with the University and contribute to the
    University's mission.
-   Generate income and funding to support the ongoing sustainability of
    the services, products and projects.
-   Diversify income and funding streams, while expanding
    internationally.
-   Ensure strong relationship building and engagement with key partners
    or funding agencies.
-   Secure and maintain mutually beneficial partnerships both with
    private entities (UK & Overseas) and also with Scottish Government.
-   We are looking to engage with individuals with a proven track-record
    of successful leadership and a strong commercial background,
    particularly in Sales & Marketing and/or a successful background in
    management or fundraising for research and development.
-   Experience of moving innovative projects and ideas through to
    sustainable services is key.
-   International Business Development experience at Enterprise Level
    would be a plus, especially in a Technology related industry.
  

