+++
nid = "7157"
jid = "00407"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-05-12 17:22"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7157"
title = "Data Indexer"
employer = "The University of Washington"
employerurl = "http://www.washington.edu/"
postdate = "2016-05-12"
archivedate = "2016-05-12"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Washington (UW) is proud to be one of the nation's
premier educational and research institutions. Our people are the most
important asset in our pursuit of achieving excellence in education,
research, and community service. Our staff not only enjoys outstanding
benefits and professional growth opportunities, but also an environment
noted for diversity, community involvement, intellectual excitement,
artistic pursuits, and natural beauty.

The University of Washington's Institute for Health Metrics and
Evaluation (IHME) has an outstanding opportunity for a temporary full
time Data Indexer.

The Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) is an independent
global health research center at the University of Washington that
provides rigorous and comparable measurement of the world's most
important health problems and evaluates the strategies used to address
them. IHME makes this information freely available so that policymakers
have the evidence they need to make informed decisions about how to
allocate resources to best improve population health.

The Data Indexer will be responsible for the indexing (renaming, moving,
and cataloguing) of large amounts of health data from a variety of data
sources, e.g., health surveys, censuses, facility records and
administrative data. The Data Indexer's work will significantly
contribute to the Global Health Data Exchange (GHDx), IHME's platform to
share and inform about health data. The Data Indexer will be familiar
with different types of files and data, particularly health and
demographic datasets; be meticulous with file naming and proper
metadata; and possess sufficient Internet and research savvy to identify
accurate information from conflicting sources. This position will report
to a Senior Data Indexer on the IHME Data Team.

**RESPONSIBILITIES:**

-   Independently evaluate, select, and apply information management
    best practices and internal data cataloging guidelines.
-   Responsible for quality and timeliness of content management
    projects specific to internal research teams.
-   Document and download data found during online searches.
-   Interact in a collaborative manner with other team members to
    accomplish organizational goals.
-   Know and effectively use the fundamental concepts, practices, and
    procedures of information management.
-   Organize large amounts of data by moving and renaming files
    appropriately based on detailed guidelines; file formats will range
    from Word, Excel, CSV, ASCII, and PDF to databases and data from
    statistical packages like STATA and SPSS.
-   Catalog data accurately and completely in an online content
    management system.
-   Carry out data entry based on electronic or paper sources.
-   Conduct research for proper metadata for datasets, including
    publishers, authors, contributing and funding organizations.
-   Find, research, and eliminate inconsistencies in metadata.
-   Develop keywords based on the contents of data files and
    accompanying information (code books, questionnaires, manuals).
-   Use productivity tools like FileBoss or BeyondCompare to develop
    efficient ways of moving and organizing data.
-   Document file management and cataloguing progress thoroughly.
-   Work with researchers and data analysts on taking in, renaming, and
    cataloguing data.
-   Identify datasets that do not conform to existing rules and inform
    the Content Manager.
-   Exemplify and promote proper data management at IHME.
  
-   Master's Degree in library science, information management, or
    (science) data management and two years' related experience, or
    equivalent combination of education and experience.
-   Demonstrated organizational skills, self-motivation, and
    flexibility.
-   Previous indexing or cataloging experience.
-   Interest in global health and global health research.
-   Ability to work in a highly structured role that calls for precision
    and meticulous attention to detail while operating in a fast-paced,
    energetic, entrepreneurial environment.
-   Strong sense of focus and attention to detail.
-   Familiarity with Drupal or other online content management system.
-   Online research skills. F
-   Familiarity/comfort with assessing materials in foreign languages. 
     

*Equivalent education/experience will substitute for all minimum
qualifications except when there are legal requirements, such as a
license/certification/registration.*
