+++
nid = "7234"
jid = "00431"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-09-09 14:04"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7234"
title = "Director of Assessment"
employer = "Purdue University"
employerurl = "http://www.purdue.edu"
postdate = "2016-09-26"
archivedate = "2016-09-09"
draft = "false"
+++
Purdue University Libraries seeks an innovative, user-focused, and
research savvy Director of Assessment to lead its evidence-based
assessment initiative to achieve strategic objectives, inform
decision-making, and heighten the impact of the Libraries faculty and
the services, resources and facilities of Libraries.  The Director of
Assessment will lead and coordinate all assessment activities across
Libraries, collaborating with stakeholders within Libraries and
throughout Purdue University to ensure that assessment and evaluation
practices are aligned with strategic objectives, the accurate collection
of data, and the development of actionable outcomes. The Director of
Assessment will provide analysis, interpretation and recommendations
based on assessment programs across Libraries to inform strategic
planning, strategic communication, and decision-making processes at all
levels.  The Director of Assessment will report to the Dean of
Libraries.  **Essential Functions:**

-   Document and define the Purdue Libraries' story through its
    effectiveness in fulfilling its mission to Purdue University.
-   Strengthen and support a culture of assessment and evidence-based
    practice throughout the Purdue Libraries, documenting progress on
    fulfilling objectives in the Libraries' strategic plan.
-   Collect, organize, and analyze data from a variety of sources
    internal and external to Libraries. 
-   Coordinate the design and implementation of internal and external
    surveys, support the development of assessment tools, and subsequent
    interpretation of results.
-   Coordinate Libraries assessment activities with campus-wide
    assessment and analytics initiatives at Purdue
-   Promote and share expertise in assessment within Libraries
    through consultation, collaborative development of assessment
    programs, and participation in staff training and development
    opportunities.
-   Gather qualitative and quantitative data for national and
    system-wide reporting requirements and other internal Library needs,
    through surveys, focus groups, vendor-supplied data, observations,
    web analytics, and other methodologies as appropriate.
-   Compile reports detailing relevant and useful findings from the
    gathered data, and provide analysis (including longitudinal studies)
    and other context as appropriate.
-   Collaborate with Libraries initiatives related to outreach,
    development, strategic communication, and other administrative needs
    to successfully disseminate Libraries' adaptive growth in a
    rapidly changing scholarly environment.
  
**Required Qualifications:**

-   Master's degree in the Social Sciences or a related statistical
    fields with coursework in and application of statistical methods,
    qualitative methods, and research design.
-   Two years of experience developing and implementing assessment
    strategies in higher education or other complex organizations.
-   Demonstrated ability to collect, organize, and analyze data.
-   Demonstrated ability to multi-task while consistently meeting
    deadlines.
-   Self-motivated, consistent excellence, and accuracy.
-   Ability to work effectively in a collaborative and culturally
    diverse environment.
-   Excellent problem-solving skills.
-   Excellent oral, written, and interpersonal communication skills.

**Desired Qualifications:**

-   Doctoral Degree in the social sciences or related statistical fields
    with coursework in and application of statistical methods,
    qualitative methods, and research design.
-   Experience assessing undergraduate student learning of information
    literacy skills.
-   Demonstrated knowledge of assessment techniques for student
    learning and learning spaces.
-   Commitment to organizational development and service quality.
-   Experience conducting analysis and creating customized reports using
    quantitative data analysis or statistical software applications such
    as SPSS, SAS, Stata or R.
-   Experience conducting analysis and creating customized reports using
    qualitative data analysis or statistical software applications such
    as NVivo or ATLAS.ti.
-   Experience with data visualization.
-   Experience with project management.
