+++
nid = "7005"
jid = "00399"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-04-01 14:53"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7005"
title = "Metadata Architect"
employer = "United States Special Operations Command"
employerurl = "http://www.socom.mil/default.aspx"
postdate = "2016-03-16"
archivedate = "2016-04-01"
draft = "false"
+++
United States Special Operations Command, Fort Bragg, NC requires a
Metadata Architect with a minimum US SECRET clearance for an initial
three month period from 1 April -- 30 June 2016.  The Metadata Architect
will provide leadership and support for metadata services on a closed
classified network for an expansive repository of digital products and
information across many functional areas.  **Responsibilities**

-   Conceptualizes, plans, and implements descriptive framework and
    practices for this repository.  Serves as the leader for adopting
    technologies related to creation and use of metadata and for
    standardizing descriptive metadata practice across formats,
    projects, and programs, to facilitate digital preservation and
    access.  
-   Performs analysis of current organizational taxonomy and ontology
    for recommended improvements and for implementation of those
    improvements as directed. 
-   The taxonomy covers a wide array of terms across various functions,
    roles and responsibilities in a Joint military environment. The
    primary use of the enhanced taxonomy and ontology will be to enable
    metadata standardization and tagging across a variety of IT
    platforms--- primarily SharePoint and file shares and the search
    indices for both. The organization is currently working to implement
    SmartLogic metadata tagging solution across the enterprise; the
    improved taxonomy/ontology will be used as the baseline for
    development of tagging rules and relationships.
-   Develops training for the organization's information architecture
    team to enhance their knowledge and understanding and develops
    training for organizational information owners in order to improve
    their proficiency and understanding of the value of tagging.
-   Develops, maintains, and communicates an intellectual framework for
    description of digital objects across projects, programs, and
    initiatives.
-   Employs or develops software tools and scripts to manage and migrate
    existing metadata sets, or to transform, tidy, and curate raw
    descriptive data.
-   Explores and adopts advanced schemes or tools for metadata creation
    and use, automated extraction, or geospatial analysis. 
-   Reviews, recommends, and provides functional ownership for software
    platforms and tools related to the creation of metadata.
  
**Required:**

-   Master's degree in Information or Library Science from an
    ALA-accredited program, or relevant combination of education and
    experience.
-   Two to four years of prior experience working in an academic
    research library, corporate library, medical library, medical center
    or US Government position performing similar duties; 
-   Working knowledge of metadata standards, such as Dublin Core,
    EAC-CPF, PREMIS, and/or TEI, or prior experience working in medical
    informatics; 
-   Demonstrated skills with tools for data manipulation, such as Open
    Refine, Excel, XSLT, or a scripting language such as Perl, Ruby, or
    Python; 
-   Experience with the workflows and practices associated with
    digitization projects; 
-   Excellent time management and project management skills;
-   Effective interpersonal, written and oral communication skills; 
-   Demonstrated ability to manage a complex workload, prioritize tasks
    and use good judgment in providing services based on goals with
    minimum supervision; 
-   Ability to establish and build collaborative working relationships
    with a wide range of people and demonstrated ability to work
    effectively within a team environment.

**Desired:**

-   Familiarity with content standards or ontologies, such as RDA, and
    AACR2; familiarity with Linked Data
