+++
nid = "6888"
jid = "00387"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-01-28 16:01"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/6888"
title = "Social Sciences and User Experience Librarian"
employer = "Washington University in St. Louis"
employerurl = "http://wustl.edu/"
postdate = "2016-01-27"
archivedate = "2016-01-28"
draft = "false"
+++
The Libraries at Washington University in St. Louis seek a dynamic and
forward-thinking librarian to fill the newly revamped position of Social
Sciences and User Experience Librarian.

Incumbent will select and acquire library materials and serve as liaison
to several academic departments and programs; participate in user
education activities and subject-specific reference services; assist in
training library staff and students; and participate in relevant
professional development activities. As User Experience Librarian
advocates for an exceptional user experience on all platforms across the
entire Libraries' digital services and resources for the campus
community, and coordinates a range of activities to assess the digital
trends and needs of a broad user community.

-   Engage in collection development and outreach activities for one or
    more social science subject areas.  Maintain resources and
    collections in support of these programs and departments.  
    Participate in relevant instruction and training activities. Provide
    broad-based, and subject-specific, research assistance to the WUSTL
    community. Contribute to scholarly communications support by
    educating and informing faculty, students, and campus administrators
    about scholarly communication issues and trends.
-   Advocate for an exceptional user experience on all platforms across
    all the Libraries' digital services and resources for our user
    community, and coordinate a range of activities to assess the
    digital behaviors and needs of a broad user community.

-   With the Assessment Coordinator, the librarian will coordinate
    analysis and reporting on library web site usage, to support
    recommendations for digital library service and web site
    development; with subject and departmental librarians, the incumbent
    will ensure that library services and resources are promoted and
    supported on all user platforms; with the Communications Librarian,
    the librarian will represent the library digital communications
    strategies with WUSTL Office of Communications and other
    communications stakeholders throughout the University.

-   Develop templates and other resources for web accessibility,
    usability, interface consistency and assessment, working
    collaboratively with the Libraries' web development and technical
    team to provide broad support to the Libraries' web development
    initiatives.

-   Provide or coordinate training and support to other staff, in the
    areas of accessibility, digital communications and digital
    collaboration, and maintains a current knowledge of user-centered
    design trends.

-   Participate in library, campus, regional and national committees and
    projects.

-   Perform other duties as assigned or appointed.
  
Required:

-   Master's degree from an ALA-accredited program, or equivalent
    combination of education and experience.
-   Demonstrated project management experience.
-   Excellent communication skills (oral and written)
-   Ability to operationalize project requirements
-   Competency in translating technical concepts to users and staff
-   Ability to work as a part of a team and alone equally well while
    meeting project timelines.
-   Demonstrated ability as a self-starter
-   Ability to deal with rapidly changing professional environment
-   Demonstrated service attitude
-   Demonstrated ability to working in a diverse environment
-   Ability travel occasionally to satellite campus locations and
    offices.  Professional travel may be required

Preferred:

-   Ability to work closely with faculty and students on project
    scoping, project management and delivery of solutions.
-   Supervision experience with student workers.   
-   Proficiency with user experience concepts and tools.  Working
    understanding of research tools.
-   Experience with web usage analysis and digital service assessment
    techniques
-   Experience managing small to mid-scale IT projects
-   Experience with social media and emerging technologies
-   Familiarity with web site accessibility requirements and techniques
-   Familiarity with the academic library environment
