+++
nid = "7253"
jid = "00426"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2016-09-19 10:31"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7253"
title = "Librarian for Research Data"
employer = "Tufts University"
employerurl = "http://www.tufts.edu/"
postdate = "2016-09-19"
archivedate = "2016-09-19"
draft = "false"
+++
[Tisch Library supports Tufts' School of Arts & Sciences and School of
Engineering (AS&E), providing services and resources to assist members
of the Tufts community in their teaching, learning and research. Tisch
Library provides collections, expertise, and technology-rich
environments to support the creation and dissemination of scholarship.
The Scholarly Communications & Collections department of Tisch Library
supports the mission of the university by engaging with the long history
of scholarly communication from rare books to research data, and by
recognizing how different formats, different modes of communicating
information, and different disciplinary practices impact the transfer
and development of knowledge over time. The department makes strategic
decisions about how best to provide access and, where appropriate,
long-term preservation, to the collections needed to support the
teaching and research excellence of AS&E. Tisch Library seeks an
enthusiastic and knowledgeable Librarian for Research Data (Assistant
Librarian/Associate Librarian) to lead Tisch outreach around research
data and related data management services for the AS&E community. This
individual will work with other library and campus partners (e.g.
research administration) to adapt, design, and develop services that
enable faculty and students to preserve, share, and curate their
research data. **
**]{.text}

[**Essential Functions:**
]{.text}

-   Coordinate and provide Tisch research data curation and management
    services, including data management plans and electronic lab
    notebook consultations, with other libraries and units.
-   Develop and offer workshops in support of AS&E research data needs.
    Provide training and support to Tisch librarians around research
    data competencies.
-   Work with faculty and other campus partners to advocate for
    appropriate development of research data archiving infrastructure.
    Develop best practices for collecting, preserving, and sharing
    research data.
-   Participate on library and university teams and committees as
    needed, including representing library interests and concerns on
    campus research data teams and projects.
-   Active professional development and service to maintain expertise
    around issues in research data, data management, and open
    data.[]{.text}
  
 

**Basic Requirements:
**At the rank of Assistant Librarian, at least 2 years of professional
experience. At the rank of Associate Librarian, at least 6 years
professional experience.

Both ranks require at a minimum:** ** 

-   ALA-accredited MLIS or equivalent advanced degree/experience.
-   Strong service orientation and interest in library patrons' values
    and needs.
-   Excellent communication skills, including the ability to work well
    in a team-based environment with a diverse group and to explain
    complex topics to a variety of audiences.
-   Demonstrable expertise in issues around research data.

**Preferred Qualifications:**

-   Science or engineering degree and/or significant educational
    experience in the sciences, engineering, or in a lab.
-   Thorough understanding of the scholarly communication lifecycle.
-   Significant understanding of the common, major funder mandates for
    open data.
-   Experience working with faculty and researchers on data management
    plans.
-   Experience as a liaison to an academic department or program, with
    attendant collection development, instruction, and outreach
    experience.
-   Experience in an academic library.
