+++
nid = "7556"
jid = "00487"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-07-10 07:59"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7556"
title = "Data Curation Librarian"
employer = "The University of New Mexico College of University Libraries and Learning Sciences "
employerurl = "https://ulls.unm.edu/"
postdate = "2017-07-06"
archivedate = "2017-07-10"
draft = "false"
+++
Responsibilities:

The University of New Mexico College of University Libraries and
Learning Sciences (UL&LS) seeks a Data Curation Librarian. This position
reports to the Director of Research Data Services (RDS). This is a
full-time, 12-month position with faculty rank and tenure status
negotiable based on qualifications and experience. The desired start
date is October 1, 2017. The annual salary is negotiable based on
qualifications, with full benefits.

The Data Curation Librarian will provide coordinated, full-lifecycle
research data curation support to researchers across all main-campus
disciplines at UNM. These support services include assisting researchers
in locating existing data for use in their research; identifying
appropriate software, data storage and computation tools for their
research activities; assisting in data management planning and plan
development; and delivering data acquisition, processing, analysis,
visualization, documentation, sharing, and preservation support
services. The faculty member will provide primary support for locally
hosted and supplemental support for externally hosted research data
collaboration, analysis, and preservation infrastructure. They will also
support the integration of research data products and associated
metadata into local or domain repositories, both through repository
provided web interfaces and automation workflows that leverage available
application programming interfaces (APIs). The individual will also
develop and provide training and instruction related to all of these
support activities.

**Position Description**

-   Provides research data reference support.
-   Provides researcher support in identifying appropriate data
    management, analysis, visualization, storage and computation tools
    and technologies for specific research projects.
-   Provides support to researchers in data management planning and data
    management plan development.
-   Provides primary support for locally hosted and more limited support
    for externally hosted data storage, analysis, computation and
    preservation infrastructure.
-   Applies knowledge of data archival practice, data licensing,
    intellectual property issues, open access and data citation
    practices in work with researchers to transition research data
    products and their associated metadata into appropriate
    repositories.
-   Contributes to the development of automation workflows that
    streamline the bulk management and ingest of research data and
    metadata into repositories and other storage and sharing platforms.
-   Collaborates with Library IT and the Digital Initiatives and
    Scholarly Communications programs in the ongoing management of the
    Library's archive system and collections.
-   Contributes to the development and maintenance of online reference
    materials developed by the RDS team.
-   Develops and provides training and instruction to researchers in all
    aspects of research data management.
-   Collaborates with College staff and faculty, and on- and off-campus
    partners in providing research data services to UNM researchers.
-   Contributes to the development and execution of sponsored research
    projects in which RDS is a collaborator.
-   Possesses excellent oral and written communication skills.
-   Contributes to UL&LS initiatives that further UNM's commitment to
    diversity and inclusion.
-   Participates in UL&LS faculty governance and in library management
    as required.
-   Meets scholarship and service requirements for tenure as detailed in
    the UNM Faculty Handbook.
-   May teach credit course in the UL&LS Organization, Information, and
    Learning Sciences program
  
Minimum Qualifications:

-   An earned master's degree from an ALA-accredited library/information
    sciences program or equivalent, **or*
-  a doctoral degree in another
    discipline that reflects a strong component of research data
    management and analysis.
-   At least three years of direct experience *providing research data
    services
-  within an academic and/or research institution, **or*
-  at
    least three years of experience *managing
-  diverse research data
    within an academic or research institution.

 

Preferred Qualifications:

-   Demonstrated experience in full-lifecycle research data management
    support: research data reference services; data management planning;
    consultation for management, computation, analysis, visualization,
    documentation, and preservation of research data.
-   Demonstrated knowledge of relevant documentation standards such as
    Dublin Core, EML, METS, PREMIS, and ISO 19115.
-   Familiarity with principles of data citation, options for data
    licensing, and intellectual property rights as they relate to
    research data.
-   Familiarity with scripting language(s) (such as Python, XSLT,
    Perl, R) commonly used in data acquisition, data management,
    analysis, and preservation workflows -- both executed locally and
    through interaction with remote systems through published APIs .
-   Demonstrated experience working with one or more institutional
    repository or other data preservation platforms.
-   Familiarity with processes and strategies for interacting with and
    use of remote data storage and computational platforms such as
    cloud-based services (Google cloud, Amazon AWS, Microsoft Azure) and
    remote high performance computing systems.
-   Demonstrated strategy for and interest in continuous skill
    development in areas of data management principles and practices,
    platforms, and technologies.
-   Evidence of excellent communication and interpersonal skills,
    ability to work independently and as part of a team.
-   Evidence of excellent organizational, analytical, and problem
    solving skills.
-   A demonstrated commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion, and
    student success, as well as working with broadly diverse communities
