+++
nid = "7549"
jid = "00481"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-07-10 06:33"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7549"
title = "Research Data Officer"
employer = "University of Exeter"
employerurl = "http://www.exeter.ac.uk/"
postdate = "2017-06-09"
archivedate = "2017-07-10"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Exeter is a Russell Group university that combines
world-class research with very high levels of student satisfaction.
Exeter has over 21,000 students from more than 130 different countries
and is in the top 1% of universities in the world with 98% of its
research rated as being of international quality. Our research focuses
on some of the most fundamental issues facing humankind today. Fifty
percent of our organisation is made up of Professional Services support
staff that partner closely with the Academic colleges to ensure we
achieve our strategy and vision.

The University of Exeter is one of the UK's fastest growing research
universities, ranking in the top 1% of universities in the world.  A
step change in research performance has followed significant investment
in research capacity.  The post is one of several library roles
supporting Open Access to research outputs. This full-time post is
available on a permanent basis. 

The post is based in the Library's Research Support Group and will work
across the University's Directorates and Colleges, particularly with
staff in Research Services and Exeter IT.   The University's research
systems include a DSpace repository, ORE (Open Research Exeter), and the
Symplectic current research information system.   

You will have experience of working with research data, understand the
research data life cycle, and be aware of current research data
management and data sharing agendas, and of relevant metadata
standards.  A confident communicator with good presentation skills, you
will work collaboratively across the University to promote good practice
in data curation and to support researchers in managing their research
data.  Excellent organizational, analytical and IT skills and project
management experience are essential.  Previous experience working with
repository software, research information systems and digital asset
management tools will be an advantage. 

The Library is part of the Education & Student Experience Directorate
within the University's Professional Services.  Restructuring is
on-going to ensure the University has the necessary staff, skills and
services for a rapidly changing HE and digital information environment.
  
Essential:

-   First degree in an academic discipline
-   Good knowledge of the Open Research environment: awareness of
    current research data management and data sharing agendas, research
    funder policies, and copyright, IP, ethical and security issues for
    research data use and re-use
-   Excellent organizational, analytical and time-management and IT
    skills with proven project management experience
-   Good oral and written communication and presentation skills; ability
    to communicate effectively with colleagues and service users at all
    levels and to explain complex information to individuals and groups
-   Experience and understanding of all aspects of the data life cycle
    (creation, processing, discoverability and access, re-use,
    preservation)
-   Experience of working with research data, supporting research data
    management activities or ability and willingness to develop
    appropriate understanding and skills
-   Experience of relevant metadata standards and schema e.g. Dublin
    Core, DataCite, EAD, TEI, DDI, METS, MODS, PREMIS
-   Good interpersonal, influencing and stakeholder engagement skills
    including proven ability to build positive working relationships
    across departments
-   Ability to work independently and collaboratively in a complex
    environment with a range of stakeholders

Desired:

-   Postgraduate qualification
-   Qualification in an information-related area
-   Degree-level qualification in a STEM subject
-   Experience of undertaking postgraduate research
-   Experience of cross-team and matrix working in an academic
    environment
-   Experience of working with repository software, research information
    systems, and tools for managing digital assets
