+++
nid = "7360"
jid = "00453"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-02-16 08:04"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7360"
title = "Data Services Librarian"
employer = "University of Maryland"
employerurl = "http://umd.edu/"
postdate = "2017-01-27"
archivedate = "2017-02-16"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Maryland Libraries serve more than 37,500 students and
4,200 faculty at the University System of Maryland's flagship campus and
constitute the largest university library system in the Washington
D.C./Baltimore area. The University of Maryland Libraries share the
teaching, learning and research goals of the university.  Recent
membership in the Big Ten Academic Alliance, a robust organization of
Big Ten member institutions, is particularly meaningful to the
University Libraries and will further propel the university's ascendancy
in academic excellence.

The primary responsibility of the Data Services Librarian is to serve as
the program lead to implement and promote novel, sustainable data
services throughout all stages of the research data lifecycle. The
incumbent in this position should strive to become the Libraries'
primary expert for the technology required to support comprehensive data
services initiatives, including repositories and hosting requirements.
S/he serves as the expert on technology and tools to support University
of Maryland researchers and partners as they manage, analyze, share,
communicate, and preserve their research data. The Data Services
Librarian must collaborate closely with UMD Libraries' staff to ensure
Research Data Services are aligned with the diverse needs of a broad
variety of researchers, and s/he takes the initiative to identify and
support the technical needs of researchers as well as suggest
improvements and new services or workflows. The Data Services Librarian
actively participates in programs and projects in Digital Programs and
Initiatives, including but not limited to the institutional repository
(DRUM), digital publishing, and digital collections.

Reporting to the Manager, Digital Programs and Initiatives, the Data
Services Librarian supports the collection, description, storage, and
assessment of data acquired or generated by researchers. S/he engages in
technical consultations with researchers to identify needs, provides
instruction in tools for data collection, description, analysis, and
exploration, and coordinates closely with both technical and
non-technical staff throughout UMD Libraries to deploy solutions for
data management. He or she helps cultivate partnerships and strengthen
collaborations between researchers, curators, technologists, and
administrators.
  
**Required Qualifications/Education/Experience**:

-   Proficiency with at least one programming or scripting language,
    such as R, Python, JavaScript, or Ruby. 
-   Knowledge of issues and technical challenges related to use and
    archiving of digital data.
-   Familiarity with academic, research, or special libraries.
-   Master's degree in Library or Information Science from an
    ALA-accredited institution of higher education by the start of
    employment, or an advanced degree with two years relevant
    experience.
-   Familiarity with institutional or subject repository systems such as
    Fedora, DSpace, Dataverse, or comparable products. 
-   One year of prior work experience.
-   Ability to use scripts or tools to extract and manipulate data from
    a variety of sources, including web services and APIs.
