+++
nid = "7585"
jid = "00498"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-10-03 06:50"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7585"
title = "Web Application Developer"
employer = "arXiv.org"
employerurl = "https://arxiv.org/"
postdate = "2017-09-13"
archivedate = "2017-10-03"
draft = "false"
+++
We seek an experienced software developer to work on the next generation
system of arXiv.org - the premier open access service for the sciences.
For over 25 years, arXiv.org has allowed scientists to publish their
papers ahead of publication in a journal via "pre-prints", enabling
rapid dissemination and sharing of their work across scientific
communities. Around the world, arXiv.org is recognized as an essential
resource for the scientists that it serves. Since arXiv's inception in
August 1991, more than 1.3 million scientific papers have been uploaded
and shared. In October 2016, arXiv.org exceeded 10,000 submissions in a
single month.

As a member of the arXiv "next generation" team (arXiv-NG), the new
software developer will design and develop web services, user
interfaces, and APIs using modern tools and best practices. The new
arXiv-NG developer will join a team of arXiv developers and
collaborators who are working to ensure that the next generation system
continues the arXiv tradition while opening up many exciting new
opportunities for linking open knowledge and open data. 

Cornell University Library (CUL) serves as the steward organization for
[arXiv.org](http://www.arxiv.org/), with the arXiv.org Program Director
at CUL leading the arXiv organization with guidance from a Scientific
Advisory Board, a Member Advisory Board, and an international community
of scientific subject area moderators. Support for the development of
the next generation arXiv comes from the Cornell University Library, the
Sloan Foundation, the Simons Foundation, and a global collective of 200
institutional members.  

***This is a benefits-eligible, two year term appointment.***
  
**Required**

-   Bachelor's degree in computer science, information science, or
    equivalent area of study with a minimum of 3 years of experience in
    collaborative software development projects
-   Programming experience in Python
-   Programming experience using web APIs and JavaScript frontend
    development frameworks such as React, Angular, Cycle.js, Ember,
    node.js, or other similar
-   Excellent verbal and written communication skills
-   Experience developing production systems and robust web-based
    applications
-   Experience using source code version control systems (e.g., git) as
    well as platforms for technical documentation to ensure sharing of
    source code and technical specifications.
