+++
nid = "7589"
jid = "00502"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-10-03 07:04"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7589"
title = "Collections & Research Librarian for Life Sciences"
employer = "NC State University"
employerurl = "https://www.ncsu.edu/"
postdate = "2017-10-02"
archivedate = "2017-10-03"
draft = "false"
+++
The NCSU Libraries invites applications and nominations for the position
of Collections & Research Librarian for Life Sciences in the Collections
& Research Strategy Department. Part of the Libraries newly formed
Research Collaboration division, the department focuses on utilizing
innovative analytics, deep integration with the university community,
and creative use of the digital environment to develop and manage
collections aligned with the strengths of the university. Librarians in
Collections & Research Strategy collaborate with faculty and students at
the intersection of research, emerging tools and technologies, and
scholarly communication. In support of the Chancellor's Faculty
Excellence Program, a University-wide effort to bring faculty from
multiple disciplines together to address the grand challenges of
society, the department assigns a librarian as liaison to each of the
program's clusters. This position reports to the Associate Head of
Collections & Research Strategy.

**Responsibilities**

-   Leads collaborative collection management in the life sciences with
    emphasis on plant sciences and affinity disciplines.
-   Provides expert services for faculty, staff, and students across the
    research life cycle including information discovery, data curation,
    visualization, research computing, and scholarly communication.
-   Fosters collaboration and interdisciplinary interactions among
    faculty and other stakeholders by supporting and collaborating with
    interdisciplinary research teams, such as the North Carolina Plant
    Sciences Initiative.
-   Participates in ongoing collection assessment and collection
    management activities.
-   Serves as liaison with select departments within the College of
    Sciences, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences.
-   Identifies emerging trends in life sciences research and recommends
    strategies for aligning library services accordingly.
-   In collaboration with research administration at NC State, advises
    researchers in evaluation of grant opportunities and in meeting
    funder and university requirements for providing public access to
    publications and data resulting from research.
-   Participates in library planning; serves on library-wide committees,
    task forces, and teams.
-   NCSU librarians are expected to be active professionally and to
    contribute to developments in the field.

**Required**
  
**Required**

-   ALA-accredited MLS or equivalent advanced degree.
-   Academic preparation in life sciences, plant sciences, or related
    discipline or relevant experience in these areas.
-   Experience with collection development.
-   Experience supporting faculty and researchers across the life cycle
    of research, teaching, and learning.
-   Demonstrated understanding of the scientific process and the use of
    impact metrics and related tools to support researchers.
-   Interest in open research practices and incentives.
-   Excellent interpersonal skills; ability to communicate effectively,
    both orally and in writing.
-   Capacity to thrive in an exciting, ambiguous future-oriented
    environment and to respond effectively to changing needs and
    priorities.
-   Evidence of ability for ongoing professional development and
    contribution.

**Preferred**

-   Knowledge of emerging trends in data curation, bibliometric
    analysis, visualization, or research computing.
-   Advanced degree in life sciences, plant sciences, or related
    discipline.
-   Experience with project planning and project management.
