+++
nid = "7583"
jid = "00496"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-10-03 06:44"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7583"
title = "Information Research Specialist, Knowledge and Library Services, HBS  "
employer = "Harvard Business School"
employerurl = "http://www.hbs.edu/Pages/default.aspx"
postdate = "2017-09-01"
archivedate = "2017-10-03"
draft = "false"
+++
The Information Research Specialist is a valued member of Baker Research
Services (BRS), a team of librarians, MBAs, statisticians, and
economists with deep expertise working with licensed and publicly
available data sources. BRS provides support to Harvard Business School
faculty and doctoral students across the research spectrum---from
advising on best resources for a project, to managing research projects
from beginning to end, to finding innovative ways to communicate
research findings, and more.

**Working Relationships:** 

-   Reports to the Senior Manager, Baker Research Services.
-   Works closely with HBS faculty, doctoral students, and research
    associates.
-   Contributes to the goals and priorities of Baker Research Services
    and Knowledge and Library Services. 
-   Works closely with subject matter, content, and technical experts
    across Knowledge and Library Services, HBS and the Harvard
    University community.

**Responsibilities:**

The Information Research Specialist in Baker Research Services:

-   Supports the creation of original intellectual property by Harvard
    Business School (HBS) faculty and doctoral students in the forms of
    scholarly articles and books, cases, conference presentations,
    course materials, and testimony.
-   Responds accurately and rapidly to the information needs of clients
    using electronic, printed, and other types of information sources.
    Responsible for completing a varying number of long-term research
    projects as well as responding to quick-turnaround information
    requests.
-   Researches, identifies, evaluates, obtains, accesses, interprets and
    analyzes text and quantitative information and data from printed and
    digital sources including, but not limited to: macroeconomic,
    financial, accounting, and securities data, and information
    collected from third-party and non-traditional sources.
-   Builds and manages coherent spreadsheets and databases, merges data
    from multiple sources and formats, performs statistical analyses,
    and creates data visualizations representing results of research and
    analyses.
-   Consults with and advises researchers on optimal methodologies and
    interpretations of results.
-   Serves as backup to Senior Information Research Specialist in
    providing colleagues and customers with training, maintenance, and
    support for specialized research databases and analytical software
    in Baker Research Services
-   Participates in Baker Library and Harvard Library committees,
    working groups, events, etc.
  
Basic Qualifications

-   Masters degree or equivalent graduate education in
    Library/Information Science, Economics, Statistics, Business
    Administration or other relevant discipline.  
-   Minimum 5+ years of applicable work experience. 
-   Deep experience using SAS and Excel.

Additional Qualifications

-   Record of involvement in empirical investigations in business and/or
    economics, or research experience in a large corporate or academic
    library is desired.
-   A second Masters degree in a related field is highly desirable.
-   Proficiency with data visualization tools (Tableau, D3, R) and
    related coding languages (such as Python) a plus
-   Broad knowledge of business topics including corporate finance,
    accounting, business history, etc.; solid understanding of business
    and economics concepts and related quantitative measures.
-   Expert knowledge of business information sources and standard
    third-party business databases including, but not limited to
    Bloomberg, CRSP, Capital IQ/Research Insight/Compustat, Datastream,
    Factset, and/or Thomson One.
-   Knowledge of literature databases (particularly business literature
    databases such as Factiva, EBSCO, LexisNexis) and experience with
    tools and strategies for searching these databases, organizing
    voluminous search results, and integrating results with data from
    other sources.
-   Experience with citation management tools such as Endnote, Refworks,
    Zotero.
-   Highly developed skills and creativity in information research,
    organization, presentation and delivery; excellent critical thinking
    skills; superb customer service. Able to produce timely, high
    quality results under pressure.
-   Demonstrated record of managing client relationships, setting
    priorities, meeting multiple deadlines and sharing workloads and
    projects with a research team.
-   Demonstrated ability to work well with others. Ability to
    collaborate and contribute to group projects and participate on
    committees and working groups within the department, across
    Knowledge and Library Services, and across the Harvard Library.

 
