+++
nid = "7581"
jid = "00494"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-10-03 06:31"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7581"
title = "Senior Data Indexer"
employer = "Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME)"
employerurl = "http://www.healthdata.org/"
postdate = "2017-08-23"
archivedate = "2017-10-03"
draft = "false"
+++
The Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) is an independent
research center at the University of Washington. Its mission is to
monitor global health conditions and health systems, as well as to
evaluate interventions, initiatives, and reforms. IHME carries out a
range of projects within different research areas including: the Global
Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors; Forecasting; Costs and
Cost Effectiveness; Geospatial Analysis; Resource Tracking; and Impact
Evaluations. The aim is to provide policymakers, donors, and researchers
with the highest-quality quantitative evidence base to make decisions
that achieve better health.

IHME has an outstanding opportunity for a Senior Data Indexer on the
IHME Data Team. The primary purpose of the position is to oversee the
seeking, intake, storage, cataloging, and citation of data sources at
IHME, which requires the management of Data Team staff and close
cooperation with research teams across IHME. The Senior Data Indexer's
work will significantly contribute to the Global Health Data Exchange
(GHDx), IHME's platform to share and inform about health data, and to
the successful completion of various grant-funded research projects by
ensuring projects have the necessary data in the appropriate timeframe.
The Senior Data Indexer achieves this by management of data indexing
staff and by working directly with research teams. The Senior Data
Indexer is familiar with different types of files and data, particularly
health and demographic datasets; meticulous with file naming and proper
metadata; and possesses sufficient Internet and research savvy to
identify accurate information from conflicting sources. The Senior Data
Indexers report to the Data Services Manager on the IHME Data Team.

**Responsibilities**

-   Provide oversight, leadership, and management support for a team of
    Data Indexers searching for data and metadata and creating content
    for the GHDx.
-   Train new staff in role-appropriate GHDx practices and provide
    additional training to existing staff as needed.
-   Create new records and evaluate and edit existing records in the
    database for publication, assessing completeness, accuracy, and
    grammar. Mentor indexers to improve overall cataloging quality.
-   Conduct and direct exhaustive research of datasets and health
    systems, translate research into readable summaries, and provide
    guidance to others at IHME engaged in these tasks, including
    faculty, researchers, and data analysts.
-   Identify dataset files and metadata records that do not conform to
    existing rules and resolve the inconsistencies.
-   Ensure accuracy and timeliness of data research projects specific to
    internal teams; manage conflicting priorities and timelines, and
    ensure clear priorities for the Data Indexers.
-   Interact in a collaborative manner with members of the Data and
    other teams to accomplish organizational goals.
-   Assess GHDx taxonomies and features and proactively provide
    recommendations for changes and improvements.
-   Maintain thorough documentation on file management and cataloguing
    progress.
-   Exemplify and promote proper data management throughout IHME.
  
Master's degree in Library Science, Information Management, or (science)
Data Management and three to five years of experience.

-   Previous supervisory experience
-   Demonstrated organizational skills, self-motivation, and flexibility
-   Previous indexing or cataloging experience
-   Interest in global health and global health research
-   Ability to work in a highly structured role that calls for precision
    and meticulous attention to detail while operating in a fast-paced,
    energetic, entrepreneurial environment
-   Strong sense of focus and attention to detail
-   Familiarity with Drupal or other online content management system
-   Online research skills
-   Familiarity/comfort with assessing materials in foreign languages
