+++
nid = "7569"
jid = "00492"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-08-18 14:15"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7569"
title = "Social Sciences Librarian"
employer = "The University of Houston "
employerurl = "http://www.uh.edu/"
postdate = "2017-08-14"
archivedate = "2017-08-18"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Houston Libraries seeks a social sciences liaison
librarian to act as liaison to the School of Communication, and the
departments of Political Science, Economics, and Sociology within the
College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences. In addition to
responsibilities for collection development, instruction, outreach, and
research support for these departments, the position offers an exciting
opportunity to contribute to the UH Libraries effort to advance digital
research services. The successful candidate will have opportunities to
collaborate with the Data Librarian and the Coordinator of Research
Support to contribute to research services that facilitate faculty and
student digital research projects. These opportunities will further the
success of a new Digital Research Commons in the library. The successful
candidate will be encouraged to develop expertise with digital research
tools and services. The successful candidate will also work proactively
to enhance information literacy education to upper-level undergraduate
and graduate programs.

Librarians hold academic rank pursuant to the University of Houston
Librarians' Bylaws Document.  They are expected to develop a record of
service, scholarship, and professional involvement.  The UH Libraries
support the ongoing professional development of librarians and our goal
is to recruit librarians committed to continuous learning.

** **
  
Required:

-   Master's degree from an ALA-accredited program
-   Demonstrated excellent communication skills and strong service
    orientation
-   Ability to work strategically in a complex, changing environment
-   Proven capacity to work effectively and collegially in teams with
    staff at all levels as well as faculty and students. 
-   Degree or significant coursework in the social sciences with an
    emphasis on either communication, political science, economics, or
    sociology; or professional experience working with relevant social
    sciences departments and/or students and faculty in a research
    library setting
-   Demonstrated awareness of faculty and graduate student needs at a
    research institution

Preferred:

-   Experience in library instruction and assessment
-   Project management skills
-   Demonstrated initiative and creativity
-   Demonstrated knowledge of digital research trends and tools
