+++
nid = "7363"
jid = "00456"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-02-16 14:18"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7363"
title = "Information Curation Specialist"
employer = "Gambling Research Exchange Ontario (GREO)"
employerurl = "http://greo.ca"
postdate = "2017-02-02"
archivedate = "2017-02-16"
draft = "false"
+++
As the **Information Curation Specialis**t and under the direction of
the Director, Knowledge Management and Innovation, this position is
responsible for curation and archiving of GREO's website resources and
providing technical data support services and analytics so that GREO is
perceived as the "go-to" site for distilled research on gambling.

As** Information Curation Specialist **you will**: **

-   Advise on the knowledge management strategy for GREO including
    maintaining and supporting information preservation and legacy
    protocols.
-   Work collaboratively with the Director, Knowledge Management and
    Innovation, the Knowledge Brokers, and GREO staff to ensure the
    knowledge repository and data repository are appropriately
    maintained and updated.  
-   Provide ready access to the knowledge database, always ensuring
    adequate accessibility and security for stakeholders. Develop and
    maintain data sets from Ontario Problem Gambling Research Centre
    (OPGRC) / GREO funded research and elsewhere.
-   Provide ongoing review and analysis of current literature,
    publications and internet material on best practices, accessing
    related policies, procedures, processes and protocols to establish a
    resource of current and emerging knowledge and information useful
    for building a policy base, providing briefings and presentation
    material as required.  Provide analytical explanations,
    interpretations, assessments and recommendations to senior GREO
    staff. 
-   Develop annotated bibliographies of knowledge evidence, literature,
    tools, resources and capacity building material for GREO as well as
    an annotated inventory of instruments and interventions that are
    used in problem gambling research.
-   Support the Director, Knowledge Management and Innovation, and other
    GREO staff in consultations with stakeholders and other
    jurisdictions to exchange information and seek input regarding
    problem gambling material and evidence archiving.
  
-   Post graduate degree in library and information science
-   Demonstrated experience with data and information archiving policies
    and procedures. 
-   Strong project management experience and demonstrated experience
    managing competing priorities in a complex environment.
-   Knowledge of search strategies and relevant research databases for
    conducting and overseeing systematic reviews of literature.
-   Ability to identify risk and propose risk mitigation strategies
    within the scope of the responsibilities.
-   Experience synthesizing complex data and research results into
    knowledge accessible for audiences at all levels is desirable.
-   Knowledge and understanding of knowledge exchange and related
    problem gambling, the broader addiction sector, and/or public health
    research is an asset.
