+++
nid = "7526"
jid = "00475"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-05-25 08:09"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7526"
title = "Data Services Specialist "
employer = "Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME)"
employerurl = "http://www.healthdata.org/"
postdate = "2017-05-24"
archivedate = "2017-05-25"
draft = "false"
+++
IHME has an outstanding opportunity for a Data Services Specialist on
the Geospatial Analysis team. The Data Services Specialist will be
responsible for meeting the data seeking, sourcing, and management needs
of research teams within the Geospatial portfolio at IHME. The Data
Services Specialist will work closely with a dynamic team of researchers
and staff at all levels to understand the unique analytical goals and
processes of a given research team in order to best identify, describe,
and organize data relevant to its specific needs. This position will be
an important liaison between researchers and Data Indexers, providing
contextual and subject knowledge to guide the seeking and description of
datasets. This position will also be integral to coordination of and
engagement in data seeking efforts to support needs across the
Geospatial research teams. A successful Data Services Specialist will
have enough knowledge of both the research and data management practices
to identify and suggest improvements to tools, processes, and workflows.

The Data Services Specialist will be a member of a complex
organizational structure that involves multiple individuals on different
teams (research teams, IT, Data, Global Engagement), each with a variety
of responsibilities and highly specific subject knowledge. This
environment requires that the Data Services Specialist be able to
effectively communicate with a diverse group of people. This position
also requires creativity, flexibility, and tenacity to acquire the
information and resources necessary to successfully complete tasks. In
addition, the Data Services Specialist will be an advocate for proper
data management and must feel comfortable providing advice and enforcing
established practices.

**Responsibilities include:**

-   Carry out data seeking, identification, and documentation projects
    specific to internal research teams in a timely manner and produce
    high-quality results.
-   Work directly with a team of researchers and staff at all levels to
    identify and manage health data sources appropriate to the needs of
    the research team. Includes interacting in a collaborative manner
    with other staff and team members to accomplish organizational goals
    and exemplifying and promoting proper data management.
-   Be an expert on the data IHME has access to and on international
    data resources; be articulate when conversing with researchers
    looking for this information.
-   Conduct research for proper metadata for datasets, including
    publishers, authors, and contributing and funding organizations.
-   Catalog data accurately and completely in an online content
    management system.
-   Become familiar with the analytical goals and processes of the
    Geospatial research teams to understand the dimensions and uses of
    health data by IHME researchers.
-   Communicate effectively to senior management and faculty when issues
    arise with data projects.
  
**Minimum qualifications:**

-   Master's degree in library science and two years' related
    experience, or equivalent combination of education and experience
-   Demonstrated organizational skills, self-motivation, and flexibility
-   Demonstrated expertise in the domain of health and demographic data
    sources
-   Experience working directly with researchers to meet various data
    management needs in an academic research environment
-   Experience working with relational databases and schema
-   Comfort with looking at data files in order to evaluate and describe
    the contents
-   Previous indexing or cataloging experience
-   Interest in global health and global health research
-   Ability to work in a highly structured role that calls for precision
    and meticulous attention to detail while operating in a fast-paced,
    energetic, entrepreneurial environment
-   Strong sense of focus and attention to detail
-   Familiarity with Drupal or other online content management system
-   Online research skills
-   Familiarity with statistical vocabulary

**Desired:**

-   Familiarity/comfort with assessing materials in languages other than
    English
