+++
nid = "7529"
jid = "00477"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-06-07 06:43"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7529"
title = "Digital Scholarship Specialist"
employer = "The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Library "
employerurl = "http://library.unc.edu/"
postdate = "2017-05-31"
archivedate = "2017-06-07"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Library invites
applications for the position of Digital Scholarship Specialist in the
Digital Research Services department.

We are seeking a creative and collaborative individual to provide
technical support for digital scholarship projects and to guide the
selection, enhancement or creation of new tools and workflows to support
scholarly research. The successful applicant will serve as the contact
point for Digital Humanities efforts for the University Libraries and
will maintain communication with the Carolina Digital Humanities
Initiative and the Digital Innovation Lab.

Based in the [Davis Library Research Hub](http://library.unc.edu/hub),
the Digital Scholarship Specialist will facilitate the use of Library
collections in new ways by supporting researchers with projects such as
online exhibits, digital maps, and text mining. The librarians and
technology experts in the Davis Library Research Hub work as a team to
support scholars with research and teaching. Staff members work
collaboratively to meet exciting research challenges, support learning
communities, and introduce and support innovative technologies through
consultation and instruction. We are seeking a flexible, curious
innovator who thrives on learning new technology and solving problems,
and is committed to advancing research.

The Digital Scholarship Specialist:

-   Works directly with UNC researchers, providing technical
    consultation and support for digital scholarship projects.
-   Builds community by developing relationships with other campus units
    supporting digital scholarship, including the Carolina Digital
    Humanities Initiative and the Digital Innovation Lab.
-   Identifies, evaluates and recommends new and emerging digital
    research tools and methods for the Libraries and UNC research
    community.
-   Provides assistance using and extending the functionality of digital
    scholarship applications, and works with others in the Library to
    help develop scalable, sustainable research solutions.
-   Cooperates with the Library and Information Technology department to
    design and implement workflows, tools, and infrastructure to support
    digital scholarship.
-   Develops services in response to current trends, campus needs, and
    Library priorities.
-   Is committed to providing meaningful contributions to digital
    scholarship generally, through sharing code, publishing, presenting,
    or collaborating with scholars from other research institutions.
  
**Required**

-   ALA-accredited master's degree in Library or Information Science, or
    a related advanced degree.
-   Demonstrated experience with web development tools such as HTML,
    CSS, and JavaScript.
-   Proficiency with at least one programming language (such as Python,
    Ruby, JavaScript, Java, or R).
-   Demonstrated proficiency with digital scholarship tools, such as
    those used for digital humanities, data visualization, text mining,
    and mapping.
-   Demonstrated aptitude for quickly learning new tools and
    technologies.
-   Experience working effectively with a team to plan and complete
    projects.
-   Excellent communication and interpersonal skills.
-   Strong customer service orientation.

** Preferred**

-   Experience supporting digital scholarship in a library or research
    setting.
-   Project management experience.
-   Experience teaching technology, either one-on-one or in a classroom
    setting.
-   Proficiency using tools and programming libraries to support text
    analysis.
-   Geospatial technology skills.
-   Background working in a large academic library.
