+++
nid = "7600"
jid = "00509"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-11-13 10:24"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7600"
title = "Repository Manager"
employer = "London School of Economics"
employerurl = "http://www.lse.ac.uk/"
postdate = "2017-11-10"
archivedate = "2017-11-13"
draft = "false"
+++
The Library is at the heart of LSE, one of the world's greatest social
science universities and serves a vibrant community of students and
staff in the centre of London. The Library has a high reputation both
nationally and internationally for its extensive collections, its
involvement in innovative projects and its high quality services.  An
exciting opportunity has arisen to join the Digital Scholarship and
Innovation Group and contribute to the development of the Library's
research support services, with a particular focus on open access and
our institutional repositories -- LSE Research Online
([http://eprints.lse.ac.uk](http://eprints.lse.ac.uk/)) and LSE Theses
Online (<http://etheses.lse.ac.uk/>).

* *In this post you will be responsible for the day-to-day management
of our repository services. You will ensure the repositories continue to
develop by implementing and improving workflows to capture, describe,
store and disseminate a range of research outputs in various formats.
You will also provide consultation and advice to researchers in the area
of scholarly communications including routes to open access, publisher
policies and research dissemination.

You will be educated to at least degree level or equivalent with
awareness of emerging trends in scholarly communications and research
support. You should be an excellent communicator with a proven ability
to relate to a wide range of users, academic colleagues and external
networks. You will be able to work under pressure and on your own
initiative as well as being an effective team member. Experience of
working with institutional or digital repositories is essential. The
role includes line management of a library assistant.
  
Essentail:

-   Educated to degree level or equivalent.
-   Experience of working in a library or similar customer service
    environment, preferably in higher education.
-   Knowledge of scholarly communications, including traditional and
    emerging modes of publishing, routes to open access and copyright.
-   Experience of working with and developing institutional/digital
    repositories or publications management via a CRIS.
-   Knowledge of funder open access policies.
-   Experience of managing and promoting a service, including designing
    and implementing processes and workflows.
-   Evidence of providing improvements and enhancements to service
    delivery, particularly in the area of open access, scholarly
    communications or research support.
-   Demonstrated ability to communicate effectively with a range of
    Library users and colleagues at all levels of seniority.
-   Demonstrated ability to work with others as part of a team.
-   Proven ability to liaise with researchers, colleagues from across an
    organisation and representatives of external organisations to
    support the development of a service.
-   Demonstrated awareness of a range of planning techniques, for
    example planning development priorities, personal time management
    and operational planning.
-   Problem-solving skills, for example identifying a problem,
    investigating and following through to a solution, by liaising with
    appropriate contacts.

Desired:

-   CILIP-recognised professional qualification in
    librarianship/information science or currently working towards
    completion.
-   Evidence of the ability to give presentations to groups of
    colleagues and/or users to explain or promote an initiative or
    service.
-   Demonstrated ability to work effectively in cross-institutional
    projects or working groups.
-   Experience of having line management responsibility for staff.
-   Demonstrated experience of an advocacy role and demanding
    negotiating and influencing skills.
-   Experience of planning and managing a service and/or promotional
    events.
