+++
nid = "7520"
jid = "00469"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-05-22 14:56"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7520"
title = "Digital Scholarship & UX Design Librarian"
employer = "Middlebury College"
employerurl = "http://www.middlebury.edu/"
postdate = "2017-05-08"
archivedate = "2017-05-22"
draft = "false"
+++
The User Experience (UX) Design and Digital Scholarship Librarian
supports and promotes the use of digital research methods within the
library and across academic disciplines. The person in this position
applies user-centered, universal design principles to digital projects,
library web content and printed materials in a team-based work
environment. Under the general direction of the Director of Research &
Instruction, the UX Design & Digital Scholarship Librarian provides a
wide range of library and academic technology services. A special focus
of this position is user experience, especially in the context of
digital scholarship, digital projects, and library web interfaces.

Working in close collaboration with colleagues, the UX Design & Digital
Scholarship Librarian also teaches information skills, provides drop-in
and scheduled research and technology assistance, and creates print and
web-based instructional and publicity materials. As the academic
librarian for assigned departments and programs, the person in this
position maintains and develops subject-specific and cross-disciplinary
areas of the library's collections. The UX Design & Digital Scholarship
Librarian builds strong relationships with students, faculty and staff
in order to ensure that the library continues to meet the needs of our
community.

**Digital Scholarship**

-   Advise faculty and students on the appropriate scoping of digital
    projects, applying knowledge of best practices in user-centered
    design.
-   Teach workshops and provide one-on-one consultations on digital
    scholarship methods and technologies, especially in the area of
    user-centered design.
-   Provide outreach to faculty, students and staff on support for
    digital scholarship activities and technology-rich projects.
-   In close collaboration with colleagues across library, technology
    and academic groups, participate in ongoing efforts to establish a
    core infrastructure to support digital scholarship activities at the
    library and across academic departments and programs. Colleagues
    engaged in these efforts include, for example, the Digital Projects
    & Archives Librarian, the Science Data Librarian, and the Data
    Services Librarian. Digital scholarship activities include, for
    example, our institutional repository, our open access initiatives,
    and faculty and student research projects.
-   Stay current on developments in the field of digital scholarship,
    and make significant contributions to digital scholarship
    initiatives at Middlebury through development of digital scholarship
    services within the library.

**User Experience**

-   Produce and support the creation of inviting and accessible
    user-centered interfaces for digital projects and library web pages.
-   Produce engaging graphics and and print publicity materials to
    connect researchers with library resources and services.
-   Develop and support the creation of plans for understanding the user
    experience of digital projects and the library web presence, and use
    that information to regularly improve user experience.

**Research and Instruction**

-   Serve as the academic librarian for assigned departments and
    programs.
-   Develop strong working relationships with faculty and students
    through regular communication and outreach. Promote and seek
    feedback on library services and resources.
-   Educate students and other researchers in library and information
    skills, for example through course-related workshops that
    incorporate learning outcomes, active learning exercises, and
    assessment. Conduct research consultations and provide research
    assistance at public service points. 
-  Regularly consider how all
    of these services could be improved.
-   Create and maintain research guides, library web pages and other
    online instruction materials in assigned subject areas. Make content
    and design decisions based on user needs.
-   Align library collections with College curriculum through
    collaborative collection development in specific subject areas and
    for general research use.
-   Assist faculty with the use of course web sites and related academic
    technology tools.
-   Evening and weekend hours may be required.
  
-   Master's degree required. This could be either an [MLS]{.caps} or
    [MIS]{.caps} from an [ALA]{.caps}-accredited program or its
    equivalent; or an MS/MA or PhD in a relevant subject.
-   Undergraduate or graduate degree in at least one liberal arts
    academic subject, or significant discipline-specific experience in
    an academic setting, required.
-   Strong understanding of the field of digital scholarship, including
    platforms and associated methods required.
-   Understanding of and experience in the application of user
    experience, usability, and universal design principles required.
-   Excellent instruction and research skills, oral and written
    communication skills, and interpersonal skills required.
-   Creativity, flexibility and a willingness to develop new
    competencies required.
-   Ability to work in a team oriented environment required.
-   Foreign language, especially, Italian, Russian, Chinese, or
    Japanese, preferred but not required.
-   Experience with developing digital projects , either on-the-job or
    through coursework, strongly preferred.
-   Experience with web design, graphic design and user experience
    analysis, either on-the-job or through coursework, strongly
    preferred.
-   Experience teaching workshops or courses required.
-   At least 2 years of experience working in an academic library,
    including instruction, preferred.
