+++
nid = "7290"
jid = "00451"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-01-11 06:48"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7290"
title = "Data Services Librarian"
employer = "University of California, Berkeley"
employerurl = "http://www.berkeley.edu/"
postdate = "2017-01-04"
archivedate = "2017-01-11"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of California, Berkeley seeks a collaborative and
service-oriented librarian to join a team of specialists supporting
world-class research and teaching. The Data Services Librarian develops,
leads, and assesses an innovative outreach and service program to
increase data and statistical literacy within the Library and across the
curriculum.

The Environment
The UC Berkeley Library is an internationally renowned research and
teaching facility at one of the nation's premier public universities. A
highly diverse and intellectually rich environment, Berkeley serves a
campus community of 25,500 undergraduate students, 10,300 graduate
students, and 1,500 faculty. With a collection of more than 11 million
volumes and a collections budget of over $15 million, the Library
offers extensive collections in all formats and robust services to
connect users with those collections and build their related research
skills.

The Library's Social Sciences Division consists of five library
locations -- the Anthropology Library, Business Library, Data Lab,
Environmental Design Library, and Social Research Library -- and
collections and services located in Doe Library/Gardner MAIN Stacks.
Collectively, the staff -- 12 librarians, 12 library staff, and over 50
student library employees -- support the research, teaching, and study
needs of a diverse clientele. These libraries are primary service points
and provide research-level print and digital collections in several
languages to support the research and teaching programs of several
academic programs and centers, professional schools, research units, and
the general public. Visit
<http://www.lib.berkeley.edu/> for more information about the UC
Berkeley Library.

Responsibilities
Reporting to the Head of the Library's Social Sciences Division, the
incumbent provides leadership for campus and library initiatives
supporting data and digital scholarship, and works with a variety of
ad-hoc
and standing groups to help achieve program objectives. The Data
Services Librarian is the library liaison to the undergraduate Data
Science Education Program (DSEP) and to the broader Data Science
Initiative at Berkeley. The Data Science Initiative is University-wide,
supporting the increased use of computational and inferential thinking
in many academic disciplines and professional schools and developing
information literacies for a data-rich world. The librarian establishes
strong relationships with faculty and students, conducts analysis and
assessment of user and program data needs, develops and implements peer
consulting/drop-in services, provides virtual and in-person research
consultations, creates instructional materials in a variety of formats,
promotes library resources and services, and works collaboratively and
programmatically to support data literacy across the curriculum.

The incumbent works closely with a network of campus partners including
the Social Sciences Data Laboratory (D-Lab), the Social Science Matrix,
the Berkeley Institute for Transparency in the Social Sciences (BITSS),
the Berkeley Institute for Data Science (BIDS) and the Research Data
Management Core Team, as well as colleagues within the Library,
including those who support GIS, qualitative data, and the digital
humanities. The librarian provides advice, guidance and instruction to
build capacity amongst colleagues and to better use quantitative data to
assess and improve Library services. The librarian is the service lead
to the Library's Data Acquisition and Access Program (DAAP), providing
input and advice on data requested by students and faculty. The
librarian represents the social sciences on the research data management
core team, supporting best practices related to data creation,
organization, preservation, and sharing. Regionally and nationally, the
librarian collaborates with colleagues to develop and implement new
models and best practices for Library support of data intensive
research.

UC Berkeley librarians and academic staff are expected to participate in
library-wide planning and governance, and work effectively in a shared
decision-making environment. Advancement is partially based upon
professional contributions beyond the primary assignment; the successful
candidate will show evidence or promise of such contributions to the
Library, campus, UC System, and profession.
  
Minimum Basic Qualification at time of application:

-   Master's degree from an American Library Association (ALA)
    accredited program or equivalent degree

Additional Required Qualifications by start date of position:

-   Domain expertise in an area of research related to the position.
-   Demonstrated experience with quantitative academic research using
    statistical software such as SPSS, R, SAS or Stata and/or
    programming languages such as R or Python
-   Demonstrated ability to plan, coordinate, and implement effective
    programs, complex projects, and services
-   Demonstrated understanding of the information needs of social
    science researchers, including familiarity with new research methods
    and with research data management
-   Demonstrated ability to provide highly responsive public service and
    to work effectively with diverse staff and campus user communities
-   Experience teaching and/or advising researchers on resolving
    data-related questions
-   Experience creating documentation and educational materials
-   Demonstrated analytical, organizational, problem solving,
    interpersonal, and communication skills
-   Demonstrated initiative, flexibility, creativity and the ability to
    work effectively both independently and as a team member

Additional Preferred Qualifications:

-   Experience with data visualization principles and tools (such as
    Tableau or Gephi).
-   Experience providing reference and/or instructional services in an
    academic library.
