+++
nid = "7524"
jid = "00474"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-05-24 14:12"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7524"
title = "Business and Data Analytics Librarian"
employer = "Northwestern University"
employerurl = "http://www.northwestern.edu/"
postdate = "2017-05-24"
archivedate = "2017-05-24"
draft = "false"
+++
1. Provides research assistance and instructional support in the areas
of business/management, marketing, and social science data analysis to
all members of the Northwestern community, working collaboratively to do
so.

2. Serves as one of two liaisons to the Kellogg School of Management,
providing research assistance and consultation, and instructional
services for business. Collaborates closely with the Business &
Management Librarian and supports students at both the Evanston and
Chicago campuses. Serves as liaison to other academic areas and
programs, with specific assignment(s) depending on the needs of the
Northwestern community.

3. Works in close collaboration with librarians for engineering and
related fields to support project management/management sciences in an
array of interdisciplinary fields, with particular attention to
entrepreneurship services and instruction.

4. Plays an active role in the planning and decision-making process of
the RLS Work Group and unit activities by participating in regular
meetings, organizing special projects and programs, and showing
initiative and creativity in the planning process.

5. Provides general research service at the Main Library research
assistance desk, and provides research services to all members of the NU
community regardless of location. Research service at the Evanston
campus includes weekend hours.

6. Serves on Library committees and other bodies as appropriate.

7. Additional duties as assigned.
  
**Required Qualifications:**

-   Master's degree in library and information science from an
    ALA-accredited program, or its equivalent.
-   Graduate degree in a related field or practical experience with
    business, project management, or social science quantitative
    research.
-   Demonstrated understanding of current and emerging trends in
    business and entrepreneurship research and scholarship
-   Experience finding, acquiring, manipulating and analyzing
    quantitative data in a research environment.
-   Working knowledge of R, SAS, SPSS, STATA, MatLab or other
    statistical analysis software applications
-   Working knowledge of Microsoft Office software suite
-   Public service experience in a library setting
-   Experience developing and delivering innovative and responsive
    instructional programs.
-   Knowledge of pedagogy and student learning assessment
-   Excellent written and verbal communication skills
-   Demonstrated ability to work independently and to manage projects
-   Demonstrated ability to work within and across committees and teams,
    to work with interdisciplinary areas across the campus, and to
    contribute constructively to committee and team efforts.
-   1-2 years academic library experience
-   Knowledge of current technologies and services supporting business
    and the social sciences.

**Preferred Qualifications:**

-   Familiarity with statistical platforms such as WRDS or Bloomberg
-   Demonstrated knowledge of scholarly communication and publishing
    issues
-   Knowledge of data mining and analysis tools, textual analysis,
    and/or TEI
-   Ability to design and develop online learning objects and
    instructional modules
-   Working knowledge of relational database software, e.g Microsoft
    Access, Oracle, MySQL, PostGreSQL
