+++
nid = "7522"
jid = "00471"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2017-05-22 19:29"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7522"
title = "Social Science Data Librarian"
employer = "Tufts University"
employerurl = "https://www.tufts.edu/"
postdate = "2017-05-18"
archivedate = "2017-05-22"
draft = "false"
+++
[Tisch Library supports Tufts' School of Arts & Sciences and the School
of Engineering, providing services and resources to assist members of
the Tufts community in their teaching, learning, and research. Tisch
Library provides collections, expertise, and technology-rich
environments to support the creation and dissemination of scholarship.
The Research & Instruction Department works with staff, students, and
faculty to incorporate information resources into the curriculum;
designs course-based and open workshops; provides research consultation
services; and develops new services and programs to support teaching,
learning, and scholarship at Tufts.

Reporting to the Team Lead for Social Sciences, the Social Sciences Data
Librarian leads the development and provision of library services in the
discovery and use of locally and externally available datasets by
researchers across departments and programs in the social sciences.
Working with a broad range of researchers, the successful candidate
builds relationships with faculty and students, increases the visibility
of available data resources and services, seeks to understand research
practices, and meets curricular needs in the use of data-related library
resources and services by providing individual research support
consultations, group instruction sessions, and other programming as
required.
]{.text}
  
**Basic Requirements:**

-   Master's degree in Library/Information Science from an
    ALA-accredited program, or equivalent
-   Experience with library research tools relevant to the social
    sciences.
-   Familiarity with data discovery, analytical techniques, and
    statistical methodologies applicable to the social sciences.
-   Experience building relationships in an academic setting, and/or
    working with/supporting students and faculty in academic departments
    via outreach, research assistance, or teaching.
-   Excellent interpersonal, oral, and written communication skills.
-   Strong commitment to outstanding public service.
-   Ability to thrive in a collaborative environment as well as take
    initiative on independent projects.
-   Ability to work effectively with a culturally diverse community.

**Preferred Qualifications:**

-   Advanced degree in the social sciences or a related discipline.
-   Experience teaching in an academic setting.
-   Demonstrated knowledge of quantitative software packages utilized in
    the social sciences, such as Stata, SPSS, SAS, or R.
-   Knowledge surrounding the application of Geographical Information
    Systems and related software.
-   Experience with project management, including planning,
    communication, and assessment.
-   Collection development experience.
