+++
nid = "7783"
jid = "00522"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-08-24 10:23"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7783"
title = "Open Educational Resources Coordinator"
employer = "University of Houston Libraries"
employerurl = "https://libraries.uh.edu/"
postdate = "2018-02-01"
archivedate = "2018-08-24"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Houston is committed to advancing open educational
resources and open education. This is a new position and we seek a
dynamic leader to collaborate across the university to build an OER
program that is responsive to student and faculty needs and promotes new
models for student success.

**Responsibilities**

Reporting to the Head of Liaison Services within the University
Libraries, this position will lead the planning, implementation, and
assessment of a University of Houston Open Educational Resources (OER)
program. The coordinator will serve as a member of the University OER
Advisory Committee and will engage campus stakeholders, including
faculty, students, the university Office of Faculty Engagement and
Development, and campus instructional designers in the development and
implementation of the program. This position will coordinate library OER
services, including assisting faculty in identifying appropriate OER
materials and curating sources and support materials.

As a member of the Liaison Services department, the coordinator will
collaborate with subject and functional specialists to promote OER
adoption throughout the undergraduate curriculum. This position will
also be responsible for implementing and coordinating a professional
development program for faculty and librarians to support the adoption,
adaptation, and creation of high-quality OER course materials. This
position will provide guidance to faculty on open licensing and
copyright in collaboration with the UH Libraries' Copyright Team. The
coordinator will also promote best practices on accessibility,
archiving, assessment, attribution, and resource sharing in
collaboration with the Libraries' Digital Research Services department. 
The incumbent will have opportunities to develop expertise in these
areas.

The Open Educational Resources Coordinator is a librarian position.
Librarians hold academic rank pursuant to the University of Houston
Librarians' Bylaws. They are expected to develop a record of service,
scholarship, and professional development. The UH Libraries support the
ongoing professional development of librarians and our goal is to
recruit librarians committed to continuous learning.
  
Required:

-   Master's degree from an ALA-accredited program; or appropriate
    combination of a relevant advanced degree and experience
-   Knowledge or experience regarding the best practices associated with
    the adoption, adaptation, and creation of OERs
-   Ability to work strategically and collaboratively with stakeholders
    to build programs and initiatives
-   Demonstrated excellent communication skills

 

Preferred:

-   Familiarity with open data sets and licensing
-   Familiarity with assessment methods
-   Familiarity with copyright, open licensing options, fair use, author
    rights, archiving rights, institutional repositories, scholarly
    publishing, associated legal and policy issues
-   Familiarity with trends in open education and the intersection with
    scholarly communications
