+++
nid = "7819"
jid = "00555"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-11-05 10:06"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7819"
title = "Data Acquisitions Librarian (Knowledge Analyst)"
employer = "Federal Reserve Board"
employerurl = "https://www.federalreserve.gov/"
postdate = "2018-10-08"
archivedate = "2018-11-05"
draft = "false"
+++
The Knowledge Analyst participates in technical operations in the area
of data and information acquisition, management, analysis or
dissemination. The analyst provides analytical support to economists and
other professionals at the Board and in the System. The support includes
research and data services, information analysis, and contributions to
the design and maintenance of metadata and knowledge management
solutions.

**Position Requirements**

The Research Library at the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System is seeking a Data Acquisitions Librarian (within the Knowledge
Analyst job family).

As the central bank of the United States, the Federal Reserve's mission
is to provide the nation with a safer, more flexible, and more stable
monetary and financial system. As a Federal Reserve staff member, you
will play a critical role in accomplishing this mission.

Research at the Federal Reserve Board is data intensive and
time-sensitive.  The Research Library, with a full-time staff of 16
librarians and 2 technicians, offers a full array of desktop and
customized library services to the approximately 2,700 staff members at
the Board. More than 400 of the Board's staff are Ph.D. economists, and
many more participate in the Board's research efforts. 

For a portfolio of specific data and electronic subscription resources
and subject areas, the data acquisitions librarian conducts reference
interviews to learn about new data needs, maintains strong relationships
with content vendors and data providers, negotiates both renewal of
existing licenses and new licenses, arranges training, works with
metadata librarians to ensure cataloging and access to data, and assists
managers with budget projections.  The librarian works with four
colleagues engaged in similar activities including:

-   Actively coordinating multiple contracts concurrently, assuring that
    acquisitions are completed to meet time-critical research needs. 
-   Working closely and communicating effectively with staff throughout
    the acquisitions process, including economists, vendors, managers
    and Board administrative, technical, procurement and legal staff.  
-   Meeting with vendors to understand the products and data available,
    communicating information to Board researchers, negotiating
    agreements, reviewing and editing contract documents, and preparing
    memos justifying purchases.
-   Representing the interests of the Board in the development of
    consortial agreements within the Federal Reserve System, comprised
    of the Board and twelve Reserve Banks. 
-   Advising management and end users on copyright and data usage
    restrictions including participation on the Library's Data Review
    Team which ensures data used in projects are in compliance with
    license terms.
  
**Qualifications*
-  **Required**

-   Master's degree in library or information science from an
    ALA-accredited institution or degree in a related field or
    equivalent experience
-   Minimum of 2-3 years of experience in negotiating contracts and
    pricing for data and/or electronic subscription services that
    demonstrate effective and creative negotiation skills
-   Ability to coordinate acquisitions workflow and work collegially
    across multiple teams external to the Library including economic
    research, budget administration, procurement, legal, accounting, and
    data management.
-   Impeccable attention to detail especially in the areas of contract
    pricing, workflow tracking, and inquiry responses
-   Initiative to improve data services and follow through on all data
    requests
-   Demonstrated skill in prioritizing workload with the ability to
    manage competing projects.          
-   Strong analytical and problem-solving skills  
-   Excellent interpersonal skills, with strong oral and written
    communications skills
-   Capacity to work collaboratively as part of a team while
    simultaneously working efficiently and effectively as an individual

**Desired:**

-   Subject matter expertise in economics, finance, and business is
    preferred but not required
-   Demonstrates an understanding of data management best practices and
    the use of data in scholarly research
-   Knowledge regarding federal government contracting procedures
-   Familiarity with trends in assigning metadata to datasets for
    cataloging purposes



