+++
nid = "7810"
jid = "00547"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-11-05 09:25"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7810"
title = "Data Services Specialist "
employer = "Princeton University Library "
employerurl = "http://library.princeton.edu/"
postdate = "2018-09-13"
archivedate = "2018-11-05"
draft = "false"
+++
Princeton University Library seeks a Data Services Specialist to assist
our world class researchers and play a critical role in academic
research and instruction. The successful candidate will have the
following responsibilities:

-   Provide statistical and software consulting services for
    undergraduates, graduate students and faculty engaged in
    quantitative analysis of machine-readable data in a variety of
    academic disciplines, particularly economics, finance, politics,
    public policy, and sociology;
-   Assist in the choice, application, and interpretation of
    quantitative methods, and with the use of statistical software
    needed to implement these methods;
-   Retrieve/manipulate complex data from a variety of sources; transfer
    data between platforms for use in multiple computing environments;
    provide extracts/tables based on electronic data, including
    government census/survey data and public opinion polls;
-   Engage in individual consultation and group instruction.
-   Maintain web presence, including creation of documentation.
-   Evaluate and design web-based access tools and end-user systems.
-   Maintain efficient operation of the Data and Statistical Services
    (DSS) Lab and digital data archive.
-   Process data and creates metadata for files in the data archive.

For more detail on Data and Statistical Services, see
<https://dss.princeton.edu/>. The Princeton University Library is one of
the world's leading research libraries. It employs a dedicated and
knowledgeable staff of more than 300 professional and support staff
working in a large central library, 9 specialized branches, and 3
storage facilities. The Library supports a diverse community of 5,200
undergraduates, 2,800 graduate students, 1,200 faculty members, and many
visiting scholars. Holdings include more than 10 million printed
volumes, 5 million manuscripts, 2 million non-print items, and extensive
collections of digital text, data, and images. More information:
<http://library.princeton.edu/>
  
Required Qualifications:

-   Master's degree and intermediate to expert experience with STATA
    and R.
-   Strong background in computing and quantitative data analysis.
-   Demonstrated ability and experience functioning successfully in a
    fast-paced environment with a strong service orientation.

Strongly Preferred:

-   Advanced degree in a quantitative social science or equivalent
    experience.
-   Experience in using complex machine-readable data; programming
    ability.
-   Expert level Stata and R.
-   Experience with qualitative data software.
-   Strong econometrics background or familiarity with economic and/or
    financial data.
-   Expertise with other statistical packages, particularly SAS, SPSS,
    and MATLAB.
