+++
nid = "7825"
jid = "00562"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-11-05 11:11"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7825"
title = "Research Librarian"
employer = "Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland"
employerurl = "https://www.clevelandfed.org/"
postdate = "2018-11-05"
archivedate = "2018-11-05"
draft = "false"
+++
**Position Summary ** An exciting opportunity exists at the Federal
Reserve Bank of Cleveland to serve as a member of the Research Library
staff focused on Data Services and Scholarly Communication. The
individual in this role will play a vital role in managing procured data
assets and in supporting scholarly communication. **Essential
Accountabilities**

-   Consult with researchers on resource needs for their projects
    through regular data reference.
-   Maintain and share knowledge of local and System data collections,
    and stay abreast of additional resources, both open and licensed, to
    determine solutions.
-   Provide data management services to researchers, including offering
    support for using and managing data in compliance with license
    terms, internal information security requirements, and data
    management policies and best practices.
-   Develop understanding of how local IT infrastructure and Bank and
    System policies impact access to data resources.
-   Represent researchers' needs in negotiation of data contracts with
    third parties.
-   Create, monitor accuracy, consistency, and usability of metadata to
    ensure Library users will find information requested.
-   Work with Library and Research staff to develop and implement a
    program to keep FRBC research practices current on open access and
    scholarly communication issues in the digital environment.
-   Provide Library Reference customer service to Bank employees,
    Federal Reserve System contacts, and the public by responding to
    information requests.
-   Establish dynamic, collaborative networks and relationships with
    researchers and with staff in other Reserve Banks, participating in
    Federal Reserve System committees and initiatives.
-   Pursue professional development opportunities to increase personal
    knowledge and skills to improve services and reflect best practices.
-   Adhere to the Bank's attendance policies through regular and prompt
    attendance.
-   Perform other duties as assigned or requested. **
    **
  
**Education and Experience**

-   Master's degree in Library/Information Science.
-   3+ years of related work experience required.
-   Experience/strong familiarity with economics-, banking-, and
    finance-related concepts, datasets, and other information.
-   Knowledge of major data providers and their products (e.g., S&P,
    Thomson Reuters)
-   Experience with scripting languages and/or tools for data
    manipulation (e.g. Python, SQL, R, Stata, etc.) is preferred.
-   Familiarity with copyright and related issues as they support the
    creation and dissemination of scholarship, such as author's rights,
    open access, archiving rights, institutional repositories, and
    scholarly publishing, is preferred.
-   Excellent analytical, communication and interpersonal skills,
    including the ability to work as part of a team and independently.
-   Ability to prioritize multiple projects and track workflow
    efficiently. Strong multi-tasker.
