+++
nid = "7790"
jid = "00528"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-08-24 10:57"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7790"
title = " Department Head, Office of Digital Innovation and Stewardship "
employer = "The University of Arizona"
employerurl = "https://www.arizona.edu/"
postdate = "2018-03-20"
archivedate = "2018-08-24"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Arizona Libraries seek a dynamic and forward-thinking
Head of the Office of Digital Innovation and Stewardship (ODIS) to
provide leadership and direction for several areas of strategic
importance. ODIS is responsible for a range of digital services
including digital stewardship and data architecture, digital
scholarship, data sciences, research and geospatial data services. and
scholarly communication. The Department Head will be a member of the
Libraries Cabinet (leadership, policy and management team) and reports
to the Vice Dean of Libraries.

This is an exciting time to join the UA Libraries and ODIS. The
department recently added four library faculty to increase our capacity
for work in digital scholarship, digital preservation, data science, and
data curation. We are assessing our current digital collection workflows
and strategies and are launching new collaborative digital preservation
efforts. We have established connections with many faculty and students
on campus through our digital scholarship, data science and research
data curation programs, and are actively expanding our networks. The
Department Head of ODIS will be responsible for leadership, management,
and planning for the services and functions of the Office of Digital
Innovation and Stewardship, which includes 12 FTE permanent
professionals and a team of graduate assistants and student employees.
ODIS members work collaboratively, engaging the strengths and knowledge
of all members of the department. The Department Head will coordinate
and facilitate leadership currently in place among ODIS faculty and
staff, and will develop collaborations and partnerships both within the
Libraries and across campus. The Department Head is responsible for
supporting ODIS members' professional development, including coaching
and guiding library faculty through the promotion and continuing status
process. The Department Head will also be responsible for ensuring that
department planning furthers the strategic directions for the Libraries
and campus.

The Department Head will also be appointed to a continuing status track,
academic professional position at the rank of Associate or Full
Librarian. Incumbents are members of the general faculty and are
entitled to all accompanying rights and privileges granted by the
Arizona Board of Regents and the University of Arizona. Retention and
promotion are earned through achievement of a record of excellence in
position effectiveness, scholarship, and service.

The Office of Digital Innovation and Stewardship (ODIS) at the
University of Arizona Libraries engages and innovates across a range of
services and content in support of the University's mission and
strategic plan. ODIS provides services to the University community that
encompass data management, campus repository, metadata, journal hosting
and publishing, scholarly communication, open access, digital
scholarship, digital preservation, data science, and geospatial data.
ODIS also leads and contributes to a variety of national and
international collaborative efforts, including TRAIL (Technical Report
Archive and Image Library) and the Afghanistan Digital Collections. ODIS
is active in campus-wide efforts related to scholarly activity and
research data, participates in the University's Research Computing
Governance Committee, leads the institution's faculty activity reporting
efforts, and collaborates with the University's Office of Research,
Discovery and Innovation, and University Information Technology
Services. In this process, ODIS collaborates with faculty and staff
throughout the University Libraries and across campus. ODIS is
responsible for strategic and programmatic planning and oversight of the
Libraries digital collections and digitization activities, and
coordinates strategies for exposing unique and local digital
collections.

 

Dustines and Responsibilities

-   Provides dynamic and entrepreneurial leadership for full integration
    of ODIS services and initiatives to expand its impact within the
    Libraries and across the University of Arizona community.
-   Works collaboratively with members of the department to build
    relationships and pursue opportunities across campus, regionally,
    nationally and internationally.
-   Provides an environment for ODIS to innovate and experiment with
    services to meet campus needs.
-   Manages a suite of budgets totaling approximately $1 million in
    personnel and services.
-   Fosters professional development of staff to meet the challenges of
    a rapidly changing environment; actively supports a workplace
    culture that values and promotes a partnership and service
    philosophy.
-   Works in collaboration with others in the Libraries and across
    campus, to provide strategic, collaborative, and programmatic
    planning for and oversight of the Libraries digital collections and
    digitization activities, including digital preservation and digital
    asset management efforts.
-   Works closely with the University of Arizona Press to develop new
    and innovative digital publishing efforts.
-   Works closely with campus units to establish partnerships in support
    of efforts to capture, steward and share the scholarly record and
    research outputs of the University.
-   Participates as a member of the Libraries' senior management team
    (Cabinet), representing ODIS needs and perspectives on Cabinet as
    well as contributing to organization-wide decision making.
-   Assesses and communicates the impact and contributions of ODIS to
    the Libraries, University, and beyond.
-   Anticipates, initiates, and responds to changes in the environment,
    and keeps abreast of trends that impact higher education and the
    library profession to ensure that the Libraries and the University
    achieve their goals.
-   Embraces ambiguity in a changing environment and is committed to
    continual professional development, improvement, and learning.
-   The University Libraries supports the UA's diversity and
    inclusiveness strategic initiatives designed to create an inclusive
    environment for all faculty, staff, and students. The candidate is
    expected to support diversity and inclusiveness efforts in the
    department and college.
-   Other duties as assigned.
  
-   Knowledge of current trends with academic research libraries and
    services.
-   Knowledge and understanding of current trends and use of scholarly
    activity data, bibliometrics, and integrations with other campus
    data.
-   Knowledge and understanding of data management and data management
    planning.
-   Knowledge and understanding current trends in scholarly
    communication and open access.
-   Knowledge and understanding of library and university press
    publishing efforts and strategies.
-   Knowledge and understanding of digital preservation practices in
    libraries and archives.
-   Knowledge and understanding of digitization workflows and practices.
-   Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, both written and
    verbal.
-   Ability to coach and mentor direct reports.
-   Ability to work in and manage a highly collaborative and inclusive
    environment, one that values and leverages the benefits of diverse
    perspectives.
-   Positive attitude and strong demonstration of Our Values:
    Collaboration, Continuous Learning, Diversity, Innovation, and
    Integrity

Minimum Qualifications:

-   Master's degree in library/information science from an
    [ALA]{.caps}-accredited institution; or other relevant advanced
    degree.
-   Substantial leadership, management, and supervisory experience in an
    academic research environment or equivalent.
-   Experience managing budgets.
-   Achievements in position effectiveness, service, and scholarship
    necessary to be hired at the rank of Associate or Full Librarian
    with continuing status (equivalent to tenure). Demonstrable
    abilities to lead and support department faculty across the
    continuum of rank.

Preferred Qualifications:

-   Substantial experience in one or more of the following areas:
    digital stewardship and data architecture, digital scholarship, data
    sciences, research and geospatial data services. and scholarly
    communication.
-   Experience with strategic planning and implementation.
-   Successful project and portfolio management experience.
