+++
nid = "7789"
jid = "00545"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-08-24 10:53"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7789"
title = "Political Science Librarian"
employer = "University of Notre Dame"
employerurl = "https://www.nd.edu/"
postdate = "2018-08-24"
archivedate = "2018-08-24"
draft = "false"
+++
The Hesburgh Libraries at the University of Notre Dame is seeking an
outgoing, creative, and motivated individual to serve as our Political
Science Librarian. This position serves as a liaison to faculty and
students in the growing Department of Political Science and the newly
established Keough School of Global Affairs and has a particular
emphasis on providing support for the selection, use, and lifecycle
management of quantitative and qualitative political data. The
successful candidate will have the opportunity to work with a dynamic
group of librarians at a time of rapid change and development for the
libraries and for research at Notre Dame.

**Responsibilities:**

The Political Science Librarian serves as the subject librarian for
faculty, students, and researchers in the areas of political science,
government information, and global affairs. She or he will work closely
with scholars to ensure that the University has the collections,
resources, and services needed for successful research and learning. In
consultation with the relevant teaching and research faculty and in
collaboration with other subject librarians and the Program Director for
Collection Strategies and Subject Services, this position is responsible
for selecting content in all formats related to the fields of political
science, political theory, and global affairs. This position also
provides customized, course-integrated instruction and in-depth
subject-related research consultations that will include instruction in
the use of statistical software and the location and use of datasets and
statistics. The Political Science Librarian will create and maintain web
guides to support the discovery and use of information related to
political science and global affairs and will work collaboratively with
other librarians and with the Library's Center for Digital Scholarship
to deliver specialized library services, such as data management
planning and data preservation.   

As a member of the Library Faculty, the Political Science Librarian will
be expected to engage in scholarship and professional activities in the
library profession and also participate in Notre Dame campus and
Hesburgh Libraries committees and teams.
  
**Required qualifications:**

-   A Master's degree from an ALA-accredited library school or
    equivalent degree, or an advanced degree in a field related to
    political science or global affairs.
-   A strong background in political science, global affairs, or related
    fields.
-   Demonstrated experience with statistical software packages such as
    SAS, SPSS, Stata, or R.
-   Experience locating and using local, state, national, and
    international government information and data from the United
    States, the United Nations, non-governmental organizations, or other
    relevant agencies or organizations.
-   Outstanding oral and written communication skills.
-   Strong interpersonal skills, and the desire to work collaboratively
    with a diverse population.

 

**Preferred qualifications:**

-   Experience creating and executing data management plans for grant
    writers.
-   Experience with geographic information system (GIS) resources.
-   Experience with strategic selection of academic materials in a
    research library setting.
-   Experience with or interest in learning about Federal Depository
    Library Program (FDLP) outreach, public access, support services,
    and collection development.
-   An interest in, or knowledge of issues related to scholarly
    communications, such as open access, copyright, fair use, or
    author's rights.
-   An interest in or experience with teaching, and the desire to learn
    new techniques to foster learning in a library setting.
-   Graduate degree in political science or global affairs preferred.
-   Knowledge of specialized information in all formats used in the
    field of political science and global affairs.
