+++
nid = "7818"
jid = "00554"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-11-05 10:04"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7818"
title = "Data Analysis Librarian"
employer = "The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Libraries "
employerurl = "https://library.unc.edu/"
postdate = "2018-10-02"
archivedate = "2018-11-05"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Libraries invites
applications for the position of Data Analysis Librarian in the Digital
Research Services department.

The Data Analysis Librarian will further the goal of the University
Libraries to support scholars during each stage of the research life
cycle. The successful applicant will provide data-related services to
support research using quantitative methods. Services will focus on
assisting a diverse audience of scholars with collection or creation,
processing, and analysis of data. The Data Analysis Librarian will refer
or work with others in the Library and with Library partners to support
visualization, preservation, access, and reuse of data.

The Data Analysis Librarian will provide research support and introduce
cutting-edge data analysis tools and methodologies to users of the
[Davis Library Research Hub](http://library.unc.edu/services/data/),
where technology experts work as a team to support scholars with
research and teaching. Research Hub staff members provide an inclusive,
respectful, and responsive service point, work collaboratively to meet
exciting research challenges, support learning communities, and
introduce and facilitate the use of innovative technologies through
consultation and instruction. We are seeking a creative and analytical
individual who enjoys variety in their work, thrives on working with
others to solve challenging data-related problems, and is committed to
lifelong teaching and learning of technical skills.

The Data Analysis Librarian:

-   Uses advanced skills with data cleaning/wrangling/normalization,
    regular expressions, web scraping, and APIs to support and
    collaborate with researchers on data-related research.
-   Works collaboratively with others in the Library and with Library
    partners such as the Odum Institute for Research in Social Science
    to meet scholars' needs at each stage of the research data
    lifecycle.
-   Identifies, evaluates and recommends new and emerging research tools
    and methods for the Libraries and UNC research community.
-   Works consistently to enhance technical skills and develop
    proficiency with new data analysis tools and techniques.
-   Develops services in response to needs of diverse populations
    served, current trends, campus needs, and Library priorities.
  
**Required**

-   ALA-accredited master's degree in Library or Information Science, or
    related advanced degree.
-   Coursework in statistics, and knowledge of statistical methods.
-   Strong customer service orientation and excellent communication and
    interpersonal skills.
-   Demonstrated advanced data skills, including data
    cleaning/wrangling/normalization, using regular expressions, and web
    scraping.
-   Demonstrated experience with data analysis tools such as R, STATA,
    SPSS, and SAS.
-   Proficiency with at least one programming language (such as Python,
    Java, or R).
-   Demonstrated aptitude for quickly learning new tools and
    technologies.
-   Experience working effectively with a team to plan and complete
    projects.
-   Demonstrated ability to work with diverse populations as well as
    demonstrated commitment to diversity, inclusion, and accessibility.

**Preferred**

-   Advanced degree in statistics.
-   Experience providing data-related services in a library or research
    setting.
-   Experience teaching technology, either one-on-one or in a classroom
    setting.
-   Proficiency using tools and programming libraries to support text
    analysis.
-   Geospatial technology skills.
-   Data visualization skills.
