+++
nid = "7803"
jid = "00541"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-08-24 11:56"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7803"
title = "Librarian for Social Science and Entrepreneurship"
employer = "The Brown University Library "
employerurl = "https://library.brown.edu/"
postdate = "2018-07-19"
archivedate = "2018-08-24"
draft = "false"
+++
The Brown University Library seeks an outstanding candidate to serve as
the Librarian for Social Science and Entrepreneurship. This highly
collaborative and innovative librarian will serve as the primary liaison
to the Department of Economics and the C.V. Starr Program in Business,
Entrepreneurship, and Organizations (BEO), an interdisciplinary program
sponsored by the departments of Engineering, Economics, and Sociology,
and entrepreneurial programs from the School of Engineering and from
departments across campus. The successful candidate will be a team
player who can positively contribute to the Library's Strategic
directions: to position the Library at the Core of Teaching, Learning,
and Research; Enable the discovery, curation, and use of rich research
collections; and leverage technologies to engage with changing modes of
teaching, learning and research.

In collaboration with colleagues from across the Brown University
Library, the Librarian for Social Science and Entrepreneurship will work
with students, faculty, and other University stakeholders to assist
researchers as they develop entrepreneurial projects, conduct market
research, explore business models, and engage in community partnerships
to strengthen the local, national, and international community. A
creative thinker, the Librarian for Social Science and Entrepreneurship
will bring new ideas, models, and an entrepreneurial approach to
engaging students, faculty and staff at Brown University in fulfillment
of our mission to serve the community, the nation, and the world by
discovering, communicating, and preserving knowledge and understanding
in a spirit of free inquiry, and by educating and preparing students to
discharge the offices of life with usefulness and reputation. 

**Duties: **

-   Builds partnerships with the faculty, students, and staff across the
    University's academic and research community in related areas,
    including the Department of Economics; the School of Engineering and
    its undergraduate Business, Entrepreneurship, and Organizations
    (BEO) concentration and graduate Program in Innovation Management
    and Entrepreneurship (PRIME); Executive Masters programs in the
    School of Professional Studies; and the Nelson Center for
    Entrepreneurship. 
-   Develops relationships with the Brown-affiliated entrepreneurial
    community, including the Technology Ventures Office, Swearer Center
    Social Innovation Initiative, Brown Venture Fellowship, The Founders
    League, and related initiatives. 
-   Maintains a high level of contact with faculty, departmental staff,
    and graduate students to ensure that the services and collections of
    the library align with the academic priorities of the campus'
    economics and entrepreneurship programs.
-   Provides expertise in working with data, gathering business
    intelligence, understanding the patents process, scholarly impact
    metrics, and the use of digital approaches that extend disciplinary
    knowledge creation.
-   Participate in outreach to academic departments to develop, sustain,
    and promote research, teaching, and learning in Economics and
    entrepreneurship programs and courses.
-   Collaborate with colleagues in the Center for Digital Scholarship to
    support spatial and numerical research.
-   Provides synchronous and asynchronous instruction on topics related
    to business and entrepreneurship, such as market research, business
    analysis, intellectual property, patents, and finance, and scholarly
    resources to support research and teaching in Economics. 
-   Develops advanced in-depth knowledge of commercial and academic
    databases in economics, business, and the social sciences.
-   Works with Library colleagues to coordinate efforts to retain,
    preserve, and provide access to Brown University research data.
-   Actively evaluates library collections related to the present and
    future needs of University economics, business, and entrepreneurial
    programs.
-   Maintains a high level of professional engagement both with
    colleagues in other institutions and with the professional
    literature.
-   Provides support to the Entrepreneurship community at Brown on
    issues of scholarly communication, copyright, patents, and authors'
    issues.
  
**Qualifications:**

-   Master's degree in Library & Information Sciences from an ALA
    accredited institution and an undergraduate degree in business,
    economics, finance, or related subject, OR graduate degree in
    business, economics, finance, or related subject.
-   Demonstrated expertise with information resources and information
    technology tools and applications in business and entrepreneurship.
-   Prefer at least 3 years of experience or related business experience
-   Demonstrated knowledge of intellectual property including patents
    and patent searching, copyright, trademarks, and trade secrets.
-   Familiarity with research data management best practices.
-   Strong public presentation, interpersonal, and communication skills.
-   Excellent analytical, organizational, and problem solving skills.
-   Commitment to public services and improving the library user
    experience.
-   Demonstrated knowledge of current issues in scholarly
    communications.
-   Demonstrated initiative, flexibility, and ability to work creatively
    and effectively both independently and as a team member.
-   Technology background and teaching experience preferred.
-   Dedication to continuous learning, authentic assessment, and
    strategic thinking. 
-   Commitment to diversity and inclusion.
