+++
nid = "7796"
jid = "00534"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-08-24 11:26"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7796"
title = "Geospatial /Data Visualization Librarian"
employer = "UNC Greensboro"
employerurl = "http://uncg.edu/"
postdate = "2018-06-13"
archivedate = "2018-08-24"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of North Carolina at Greensboro Libraries invites
applications for the position of Geospatial and Data Visualization
Librarian. We are seeking an energetic, innovative, flexible, and
service-oriented individual to join the Research, Outreach and
Instruction Department. Reporting to the Social Sciences Data Librarian,
the Geospatial and Data Visualization Librarian provides consultation
services and training to support the [GIS]{.caps} and data visualization
needs of [UNCG]{.caps} faculty, staff, and students. The individual will
serve as a resource for appropriate departments as required to support
data and [GIS]{.caps} classroom and faculty needs. This is a 12-month
tenure-track librarian position with salary and benefits distributed
over 12 months. Position reports to the Social Sciences Data Librarian.

Responsibilities:

-   Provide outreach and promotion for [GIS]{.caps} and data
    visualization services and events to faculty and students.
-   Provide in-depth research consultations on [GIS]{.caps} and other
    data visualization tools, including data discovery, use, and
    management, primarily for geospatial data.
-   Provide assistance for [GIS]{.caps} and data services instruction
    for workshops and course support.
-   Lead planning and implementation of [GIS]{.caps}-oriented
    professional development for the libraries.
-   Participate in and provide feedback for community or [UNCG]{.caps}
    activities and projects related to [GIS]{.caps} and data
    visualization.
-   Engage with campus partners to make digital and scholarly data work
    openly discoverable, accessible, and reusable.
-   Serve as co-liaison to Geography, Economics, Sociology, and other
    Social Science areas as assigned for data support.
-   Serve as library liaison to one department, to be determined.
  
Required Qualifications

-   MLIS/[MLS]{.caps}/[MIS]{.caps} from an [ALA]{.caps}-accredited
    program.
-   Graduate Certificate in Geographic Information Systems, equivalent
    coursework, or relevant, demonstrable experience.
-   Experience with geospatial analysis ([GIS]{.caps}) and data
    visualization projects.
-   Experience with open-source and web-based [GIS]{.caps} tools, such
    as OpenLayers, Leaflet, Open GeoPortal, [QGIS]{.caps}, ArcGIS
    Online, or other similar packages.
-   Experience with at least one statistical software tool, such as
    [STATA]{.caps}, [SPSS]{.caps}, [SAS]{.caps} or R.
-   Demonstrated knowledge of quantitative social science research
    methods.
-   Superior organizational, analytical, and communication skills.

Preferred:

-   Graduate degree in a relevant social science discipline or MS in
    data analytics or significant progress toward this degree
-   Experience with [ESRI]{.caps} ArcGIS products.
-   Experience with a programming language, such as Python or R.
-   Experience with data visualization tools, such as Tableau.
-   Experience providing reference service in an academic or research
    library.
-   Experience teaching the use of [GIS]{.caps} to students and faculty.
