+++
nid = "7793"
jid = "00530"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-08-24 11:16"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7793"
title = "Director of Office, World Data System International Technology Office"
employer = "University of Victoria "
employerurl = "https://www.uvic.ca/"
postdate = "2018-04-24"
archivedate = "2018-08-24"
draft = "false"
+++
The ICSU World Data System (ICSU-WDS:
[www.icsu-wds.org](http://www.icsu-wds.org)) was established by the
International Council for Science (ICSU:
[www.icsu.org/](http://www.icsu.org/)) in September 2008 to promote
long-term stewardship of, and universal and equitable access to,
quality-assured scientific data and data services, products, and
information across a range of disciplines in the natural and social
sciences, and the humanities. ICSU-WDS aims to facilitate scientific
research by coordinating and supporting trustworthy scientific data
services for the provision, use, and preservation of relevant datasets,
while strengthening their links with the research community. ICSU-WDS is
governed by a Scientific Committee (WDS-SC) appointed by ICSU and made
up of leading scientists and experts who are actively involved with data
and/or computer sciences. An International Programme Office (WDS-IPO)
hosted by the Japanese National Institute of Information and
Communications Technology was established in March 2011. With guidance
from the WDS-SC, the IPO has the task of coordinating the operations of
ICSU-WDS and is responsible for implementing WDS-SC decisions. 

The WDS International Technology Office (Office), to be hosted by Ocean
Networks Canada (ONC) at the University of Victoria, is an initiative
hosted by the three current regular members of ICSU's World Data System
and their Canadian host Institutions. They are:

-   Ocean Networks Canada at the University of Victoria, British
    Columbia
-   the Canadian Astronomy Data Centre at the National Research Council
    in Victoria, British Columbia, and the 
-   the Canadian Cryospheric Information Network (CCIN)/Polar Data
    Catalogue (PDC) at the University of Waterloo in Ontario

All three proponents are internationally recognized organizations
supporting the hosting and curation of scientific data in the natural
sciences and social sciences in the case of CCIN/PDC. They provide
services dealing with the acquisition, storage, curation, access and
publication of data and data products with significant public outreach
and education programmes. In addition, Research Data Canada, the
Canadian affiliate to the Research Data Alliance, based in Ottawa, is
also a strong supporter of the initiative. 

The Office is funded by a consortium comprised of ONC, the University of
Victoria, Research Data Canada, the National Research Council and other
funding partners such as the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research
Council of Canada (NSERC). The Office is being established with a
three-year term with the intention to develop a sustainability plan for
its ongoing operation.
  
**Qualifications and experience**

The Associate Director will hold a Master's degree in information
technology, natural, library or engineering sciences. The candidate will
have five (5) years of direct and hands-on experience leading the
development and integration of complex data and information systems in
the context of international or multi-partner scientific data and
information management collaborations. 

Additionally, experience is required in:

-   Management experience in a not-for-profit or academic environment
-   Supervision of small technical teams
-   Organizational and financial management
-   Development of grant proposals
-   Project management
-   Social media
-   Development and maintenance of web interfaces
-   An equivalent combination of education and experience may be
    considered.

**Key job-specific competencies**

-   Excellent command of written and spoken English as well as
    outstanding public speaking abilities.
-   Strong understanding of information systems, web interfaces business
    software and data management. 
-   Strong team leadership, supervisory experience and an aptitude to
    operate as an effective tactical as well as a strategic thinker.
-   Demonstrated ability to exercise judgement independently.
-   Ability to plan, organize and monitor activities and projects
    according to priorities, established schedules and deadlines. 
-   Ability to plan, organize and monitor the work and activities of
    self and direct reports. 
-   Ability to serve as spokesperson, facilitator or participant in
    meetings and presentations to committees, organizations and
    stakeholders.
