+++
nid = "7611"
jid = "00519"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-01-30 08:31"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7611"
title = "Program Lead, Information Quality"
employer = "Canadian Institute of Health Information (CIHI) "
employerurl = "https://www.cihi.ca/en"
postdate = "2018-01-23"
archivedate = "2018-01-30"
draft = "false"
+++
The Program Lead, Information Quality, is a member of the Information
Quality management team. The Program Lead works within an
interdisciplinary matrix team providing leadership for the development,
implementation and improvement of corporate information quality tools
and processes.

 The key function of this role will be to lead the development of the
Corporate Metadata Improvement Program, which has been set up to improve
the consistency of and access to metadata on CIHI's data and
information. The successful candidate will be responsible for executing
a metadata roadmap that supports CIHI's strategic goals and
implementation of key change initiatives currently underway (in
particular the Modernizing Data Supply and Access initiative). This role
requires extensive collaboration with many areas across CIHI and with
external stakeholders.

Duties and Responsibilities:

1.  Provides leadership for the metadata strategy and roadmap. Leads all
    the activities, tasks and responsibilities associated with the
    planning, prioritization, implementation and evaluation within this
    program of work.

2.  Provide leadership and guidance to staff. Supervise, coach,
    coordinate and monitor work, workload and performance of staff to
    ensure that quality is maintained and that learning opportunities
    are provided. Conducts annual performance management reviews.

3.  Develops an understanding of the needs of internal and external
    metadata users, current business processes and systems relating to
    metadata across the organization.

4.  Leverages industry standards and best practices to develop and
    implement standards, policies, guidelines, tools and metrics for
    managing metadata.

5.  Develops and maintains project plans including the development of
    the project scope, identifying milestones and resource requirements.
    Collaborates with other departments to ensure metadata needs are
    understood and incorporated into existing projects, where required.
    Develops Gantt charts as needed. Monitors project progress, reports
    on project status, manages resources, identifies issues and makes
    recommendations to the manager.

6.  Lead organizational change management as required to enable
    implementation of the metadata roadmap.

7.  Establish and maintain relevant contacts with various organizations
    with metadata initiatives, such as Institute for Clinical Evaluative
    Sciences (ICES), Manitoba Centre for Health Policy (MCHP),
    Statistics Canada, and Ontario Data Documentation, Extraction
    Service and Infrastructure (ODESI).

8.  In collaboration with the Manager and other Information Quality
    program leads, provides support in the planning and execution of
    other information quality initiatives.

9.  Contributes to the overall planning activities for the Information
    Quality department, including the development and monitoring of the
    department's operational plan and budget, communicating with
    departments on areas of interest and priorities.

10. Respect privacy and confidentiality of information by following
    policies in Privacy and Confidentiality of Health Information at
    CIHI and related procedures and directives.

11. Promote the organization, its products and services, through
    participation on external committees, presentations and/or
    attendance at provincial, national and international conferences,
    preparation of articles for publication and other activities as
  
-   Graduate degree in health studies/services research,
    library/information science, epidemiology or equivalent combination
    of experience/education.
-   A minimum of 5 years related experience. Experience in management
    and use of data and/or metadata. Understanding of common challenges
    with the quality, dissemination and use of data is required.
-   Excellent customer-focus, communication and collaboration skills.
    Demonstrated ability to build and maintain relationships at various
    levels of the organization.
-   Excellent analytical, critical thinking and problem-solving skills.
    Demonstrated ability to analyze and synthesize complex information.
-   Experience working with large complex systems with an understanding
    of relational and non-relational data structures, concepts and data
    models.
-   Knowledge of statistical metadata standards and best practices (e.g.
    the General Statistical Information Model (GSIM), the Generic
    Statistical Business Process Model (GSBPM), the Data Documentation
    Initiative (DDI), and the Statistical Data and Metadata Management
    Exchange standard (SDMX)).
-   Operational experience with SAS, Oracle/SQL or other data
    management/quality assurance software.
-   Familiarity with industry standards metadata and knowledge
    management technologies and practices (XML, JSON, RDF) is an asset.
-   Knowledge of CIHI's databases is an asset.
-   Ability to fulfill occasional travel requirements.
-   Fluency in both official languages is an asset
