+++
nid = "7785"
jid = "00524"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-08-24 10:36"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7785"
title = "Assistant Professor, Data Services Librarian "
employer = "Levin Library at Curry College "
employerurl = "https://www.curry.edu/resources-and-services/academic-resources/levin-library.html"
postdate = "2018-03-05"
archivedate = "2018-08-24"
draft = "false"
+++
Levin Library at Curry College seeks a skilled, experienced, and
innovative librarian at the Assistant Professor level, to develop and
lead the library's program in the support of quantitative education, in
alignment with Curry's increasing emphasis on quantitative literacy as a
student learning outcome. This position will begin in fall 2018. The
review of applications will begin March 20, 2018 and continue until the
position is filled.

**Primary responsibilities: **

 The Data Services Librarian will develop an instructional and outreach
program for students and faculty using quantitative methods in both the
general education curriculum and across several disciplines.

 The Data Services Librarian will address these curricular, collection,
and strategic needs by:

-   Teaching data literacy instruction as a component of information
    literacy;
-   Serving as library resource person for students and faculty using
    statistical and data visualization software;
-   Coordinating library liaison quantitative literacy instruction
    across the disciplines;
-   Leading library support initiatives for personal data management and
    security;
-   Developing instructional tutorials and other learning guides;
-   Building a data set collection (including open access resources)
    along with the tools necessary to work with the data.

The Data Services Librarian will liaise with and support the college's
new Quantitative Commons and stakeholders, faculty, and technology to
develop curation, management and support services for the curricular and
research uses of data and software, and track and implement new
developments in these areas as appropriate.

**Additional responsibilities:**

The Data Services Librarian will collaborate with a librarian team in
the delivery of information literacy instruction and an evolving
reference service model, participate in a liaison role with teaching
faculty, and additionally, contribute to development of instructional
services for the college's online and hybrid programs, as part of the
college's strategic initiative to "offer students the knowledge, skills,
and competencies needed to responsibly navigate a rapidly changing world
of professional and personal opportunities."  
  
**Minimum Qualifications**: ** **

-   A Master's in Library & Information Science (MLS) required.
-   Experience: 2-3 + years professional experience in an academic
    library.
-   Knowledge of and experience using statistical and data visualization
    software such as: SPSS and ArcGIS.
-   Teaching experience at the general undergraduate level and/or at the
    graduate level. 
-   Experience with learning management systems such as Blackboard.
-   Excellent writing and presentation skills.
-   Ability to represent library and college in both institutional and
    professional settings.

 

**Preferred qualifications:**

-   Evidence of graduate level and/or continuing education coursework in
    relevant areas of statistics and data science preferred.
-   Experience with research data management practices, protocols, and
    infrastructure.
-   Knowledge of digital archiving and scholarly communication
    practices.
