+++
nid = "7811"
jid = "00548"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-11-05 09:27"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7811"
title = "Head Librarian, Data & Assessment Services"
employer = "Boston College Libraries "
employerurl = "https://library.bc.edu/"
postdate = "2018-09-13"
archivedate = "2018-11-05"
draft = "false"
+++
Boston College Libraries is seeking a dynamic, highly collaborative
leader with a background in research data management to develop and
guide a set of wide-ranging programs in support of digital initiatives
and data collection at Boston College.

The Head Librarian for Data & Assessment Services leads the Libraries'
data services and research data curation program on campus, and also
guides assessment initiatives and coordinates data visualizations for
library resources, services, spaces, and technology. The Head develops a
robust set of programs and services in support of research data
collection and management for qualitative and quantitative datasets. The
Head is responsible for planning the services and functions of the
Libraries and harnessing the expertise of staff throughout campus to
enable a unified complement of data services and support for Boston
College (BC). He/she provides leadership and coordination for the
external and internal data needs of library departments, overseeing
reporting while championing the culture of evaluation and continuous
improvement in assessing library resources. The Head coordinates the
collection, analysis, and visualization of data, including the use of
surveys, focus groups, user experience tests, and metrics, communicating
findings to relevant stakeholders.

This is an exciting time to join the BC Libraries. Reporting to the
Associate University Librarian for Digital Initiatives & Services, he or
she will work with staff throughout the Libraries, including a full team
of digital scholarship professionals, collections and liaison librarians
familiar with subject needs and the increasing demand for data services
among faculty and students, and staff supporting and strategically
developing digital repositories programs and systems. The Department
Head will develop collaborations and partnerships with entities across
campus with an interest in institutional data policy and practices,
systems support, instructional technology and faculty data services.

  
Master's degree in library or information science from an ALA-accredited
institution and preferably an advanced degree in a data-intensive
research field.

Minimum three years of relevant and substantial experience with data
management in a research or university setting, preferably in a
leadership role. Demonstrated understanding of the mission and
operations of academic libraries.

