+++
nid = "7817"
jid = "00560"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2018-11-05 10:01"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/7817"
title = "Academic Technology Specialist for the Institute for Research in the Social Sciences"
employer = "Stanford University Libraries’ Center for Interdisciplinary Research (CIDR) "
employerurl = "http://library.stanford.edu/research/cidr"
postdate = "2018-11-05"
archivedate = "2018-11-05"
draft = "false"
+++
The Stanford University Libraries' Center for Interdisciplinary Research
(CIDR) is seeking an innovative, experienced, team-oriented Academic
Technology Specialist for the Institute for Research in the Social
Sciences (IRiSS) in Stanford's School of Humanities and Sciences, to
help lead the integration of technology into data-driven research
activities in the social sciences at Stanford. Regular tasks will
include consulting and collaborating with members of the Stanford
community including faculty, students, and other research personnel,
administrative and technical staff at business and support units from
across the University. The candidate will engage in analyzing,
designing, developing, and implementing computational tools and
environments for social science research primarily housed in the six
social science departments including Anthropology, Economics,
Communications, Political Science, Psychology and Sociology.

The Academic Technology Specialist will be based jointly in IRiSS and
the Stanford Libraries' CIDR, where s/he will be part of a distinguished
and widely-recognized team of other academic technologists and software
developers with combined decades of expertise in the computational
social sciences and digital humanities, whose activities support
research in these fields for the Stanford community. CIDR collaborates
both with individual faculty and with centers, departments and
institutes engaged in computationally rich research and digital
scholarship, particularly in the social sciences, digital humanities,
and within the related professional schools where similar work occurs.
CIDR is also a hub for collaboration and communication among social
science and digital humanities scholars, library curators, and
professional developers, promoting a sense of shared purpose in support
of the Stanford mission of research and teaching.

The successful candidate will have a deep understanding of scholarship
in the social sciences, and experience in working with a variety of
social science data. S/he will consult and collaborate with faculty and
students on research projects to identify technical approaches,
processes and tools; evaluate and integrate existing software tools; and
design and implement new solutions. That candidate should have both a
broad and deep understanding of current state of the art in social
science research methods and computational social science, in emerging
tools, and increased data security requirements as new methods seek data
that include PII/PHI. The candidate should also be experienced in
working with data visualization; statistical analysis; high performance
computing; secure storage and computation; data provisioning and
contracting; cloud computing; and other related areas.

**CORE DUTIES:**


-   Assist in providing leadership in the use of technology in data
    driven research, data lifecycles, analysis and workflows, and
    community building among those engaged in computational social
    sciences across the University
-   Encourage and support the use of advanced computational technology
    by developing and implementing new tools, processes and resources
    for principal investigators and their research teams, assisting them
    with the implementation of these tools and technologies, and
    creating and supporting infrastructure that allows for the use and
    re-use of these tools broadly across the research landscape at
    Stanford.
-   Lead or consult on development of software tools and platforms where
    solutions do not already exist, working with University and outside
    entities
-   Provide expertise and support in applying emerging tools and methods
    within the social sciences to faculty-driven research projects in
    support of their research goals including access, management and use
    of very large data sets; application of machine learning and other
    artificial intelligence techniques; use or high-performance
    computing environments and cloud platforms; visualization and
    statistical analysis using traditional and emerging platforms.
-   Apply data science methodologies, tools and techniques in an
    academic setting supporting social science-based research.
-   Lead the development of resources, teach seminars or workshops to
    disseminate information about application of research technologies,
    both within IRiSS and CIDR.
-   Assist with coordination research technology policies, procedures
    and support with other University academic and administrative
    offices.
-   Provide outreach and advocacy within and across departments for
    effective uses of research technology. Provide departmental and
    campus leadership for using technology in the conduct of
    leading-edge research.
-   *Other duties may also be assigned*
  
**MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:**

**Education & Experience:

**A bachelor's degree in the social sciences, computer science, or
related area, plus three years of relevant experience, or combination of
education and relevant experience.

**Other Relevant Education May Include:**
An advanced degree in the social sciences or a related area is highly
desirable.

**Knowledge, Skills and Abilities:

**

-   Expertise in utilizing technology to enhance research activities.
-   Ability to define and solve logical problems for technical
    applications.
-   Demonstrated ability to express scholarship and research goals
    through the imaginative application of technology to existing
    materials and structures.
-   Ability to plan, design, develop and evaluate engaging multimedia
    training objects.
-   Experience with delivering applications in a networked environment.
-   Excellent teaching, communication and interpersonal skills.
-   Ability to interact effectively and tactfully with members of the
    academic community; demonstrated experience working in an
    environment with colleagues of diverse backgrounds and customs.
-   Excellent time management and project management skills.
    Demonstrated ability to manage a complex workload, prioritize tasks,
    and use good judgment in providing services based on goals.
-   Excellent leadership and customer service skills, ability to build
    strong working relationships within the University community.


**PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS*:

**

-   Constantly perform desk-based computer tasks.
-   Frequently sitting, grasp lightly/fine manipulation.
-   Occasionally stand/walk, lift/carry/push/pull objects that weigh
    11-20 pounds.
-   Rarely writing by hand, use a telephone.


*
-  - Consistent with its obligations under the law, the University will
provide reasonable accommodation to any employee with a disability who
requires accommodation to perform the essential functions of his or her
job.*
