+++
nid = "8083"
jid = "00600"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2020-01-07 07:48"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8083"
title = "Data Fellow (Two Year)"
employer = "Dartmouth College "
employerurl = "https://home.dartmouth.edu/"
postdate = "2019-05-08"
archivedate = "2020-01-07"
draft = "false"
+++
Designed for someone beginning their career in data science, the Data
Fellow will work with Dartmouth students and researchers in finding,
manipulating, analyzing, and visualizing statistical data. With guidance
and supervision, this person will develop and offer consultation and
other services on appropriate tools and software (such as R and Stata).
With a focus on Dartmouth's business, engineering, and economics
communities, this individual will collaborate with other librarians and
data professionals, and will contribute to Dartmouth Library's emerging
data services program.

During the­­­­­­­­­ two year fellowship, this individual will be
encouraged to pursue opportunities to learn new skills, methods, and
software; to develop and complete an independent project; and to present
on a relevant topic at a professional association conference at the end
of their two years.
  
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

-   Bachelor's degree in the data sciences, the social sciences,
    computer science, statistics, applied math, financial engineering,
    business, or other relevant field.
-   Familiarity with data science concepts and approaches, as evidenced
    by work experience or educational background.
-   Basic skills or experience with at least one of the following tools,
    software packages, or programming languages: R, Stata, SPSS, SAS,
    MatLab, Python, or Julia.
-   Strong interpersonal, organizational, and communication skills.
-   Demonstrated interest in, and enthusiasm for, outreach, service and
    support for user communities.
-   Aptitude and motivation for self-directed learning, experimentation,
    and discovery.
-   Commitment to diversity and to supporting the needs of a diverse
    population.

 

PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS

-   Demonstrated experience using complex machine-readable statistical
    and/or geospatial data such as U.S. Census, financial, or economic
    data.
-   In-depth knowledge of R, Stata, SPSS, SAS, MatLab, Python, or Julia.
-   Programming ability.
