+++
nid = "8095"
jid = "00614"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2020-01-08 06:55"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8095"
title = "Spatial Data Science Librarian "
employer = "University of California, Los Angeles"
employerurl = "www.ucla.edu"
postdate = "2019-08-06"
archivedate = "2020-01-08"
draft = "false"
+++
The UCLA Library seeks a Spatial Data Science Librarian (SDSL) to
develop and extend the Library's role in providing services centered
around facilitating geospatial research, enabling its use through
research support and instruction, and building community by
collaborating with colleagues within and beyond the Library. This role
provides leadership for the Library in geospatial data collection,
including collaborating with UCLA, UC, and statewide university
stakeholders on collecting, storing and preserving spatial research,
purchased and open data. Reporting to the Director of the Library Data
Science Center, the SDSL will play a leading role in defining the vision
of geospatial services needed to support research and education at UCLA.
  
Required Qualifications

-   ALA-accredited Master's Degree in Library or Information Science OR
    significant graduate-level coursework toward such a degree OR
    equivalent education and experience (subject expertise combined with
    professional library education and/or experience).
-    Demonstrated GIS experience.
-    Extensive knowledge and expertise with geospatial data and relevant
    software, such as, GDAL, ESRI ArcGIS applications, QGIS, and ENVI.
-    Experience with Python or R and their application to geospatial
    data.
-   Competence with data preparation, analysis, visualization, and
    storytelling.
-    Excellent communication skills.
-    Significant experience and demonstrated interest in education,
    outreach, mentoring, consulting, community-building, and/or formal
    communication activities.
-    Contribution to a Software Carpentry or Data Carpentry workshop or
    other data- or computation-focused training efforts.
-    Ability to work in a highly collaborative and inclusive
    environment, one that values and leverages the benefits of diverse
    perspectives.

Desired Qualifications

-    Master's degree or equivalency in Geography, Geographic Information
    Science, or other relevant field, or relevant work experience.
-    Experience with data management planning.
-    Experience with SQL and spatial databases, such as PostGIS and
    SpatiaLite.
-    Knowledge of a data repository, such as Dataverse, Dryad, or
    Zenodo.
-    Knowledge of statistical reasoning and its application in
    geospatial science.
-    Experience working in an academic, research, or special library.
-    Experience working in higher education.
-    Experience in donor relations and stewardship.
