+++
nid = "8100"
jid = "00619"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2020-01-08 07:36"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8100"
title = "Information Research Specialist"
employer = "Harvard University"
employerurl = "https://www.harvard.edu/"
postdate = "2019-09-24"
archivedate = "2020-01-08"
draft = "false"
+++
The Information Research Specialist is a valued member of Knowledge and
Library Services/Baker Library at Harvard Business School.

Working in the Curriculum & Learning Services (CLS) unit, you would be
part of a dynamic team of information specialists and librarians who
provide research and course support to a wide variety of audiences
including Harvard Business School (HBS) faculty, students, program
participants, and alumni, as well as Harvard University affiliates and
visiting researchers. We bring the library into the classroom through
in-class presentations, course information products and
assignment-specific research drop-in sessions. The unit is charged with
extending and leveraging current research, course support and
collection-related activities to new and existing audiences.

Working Relationships:

-   Reports to the Manager, Customer Engagement, Curriculum & Learning
    Services.
-   Works closely with HBS faculty, HBS students and program
    participants, alumni, University affiliates and visiting
    researchers.
-   Contributes to the goals and priorities of Curriculum & Learning
    Services and Knowledge and Library Services.
-   Works closely with subject matter, content, and technical experts
    across Knowledge and Library Services, HBS and the Harvard
    University community.

Responsibilities:

-   Provides research support in a variety of formats (in-person, email,
    phone, chat, etc.) and in different ways (ready reference, in-depth
    reference and scheduled individual or team research consultations).
-   Acts as a liaison to HBS faculty units; identifies and designs
    research support models that align with curriculum objectives.
-   Demonstrates highly-developed skills and creativity in information
    research, writing, instruction, presentation and delivery. Possesses
    excellent critical thinking skills and superb customer service.
-   Assists researchers in accessing and extracting information from a
    variety of formats and sources (e.g., web, primary materials, and
    secondary materials) for course assignments, career research
    entrepreneurial activities, etc.
-   Curates news for a series of current awareness newsletters
    distributed to HBS students, faculty and administrative units.
-   Develops and maintains web content within the Baker Library
    discovery platform and content management system.
-   Participates in Baker Library and Harvard Library committees,
    working groups, events, etc.
-   Engages as a member of the Customer Engagement team within CLS.
  
Basic Qualifications:

Master's degree or equivalent graduate education in Library/Information
Science, Economics, Social Sciences, Business Administration or other
relevant discipline. Minimum 5+ years of applicable work experience.

Additional Qualifications:

-   Broad knowledge of business topics including corporate finance,
    accounting, business history, etc.; solid understanding of business
    and economics concepts and related quantitative measures.
-   Expert knowledge of business information sources--standard
    third-party business databases including, but not limited to
    Bloomberg, CapIQ, Factset, and Thomson One; as well as market
    research sources including but not limited to EMIS, IBISWorld,
    Mintel and Passport. Experience with business literature databases
    (Factiva, ProQuest, EBSCO); tools and strategies for searching
    through them; and integrating them with data from other sources.
-   Able to produce timely, high quality results under pressure.
-   Demonstrated record of managing client relationships, setting
    priorities, meeting multiple deadlines and sharing workloads and
    projects with a research team.
-   Demonstrated ability to work well with others. Ability to
    collaborate and contribute to group projects and participate on
    committees and working groups within the department, across
    Knowledge and Library Services, and across the Harvard Library.
-   Work experience in an academic environment or a specialized library.
