+++
title = "Labor Economics Librarian"
employer = "Princeton University"
employerurl = "https://www.princeton.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://puwebp.princeton.edu/AcadHire/apply/application.xhtml?listingId=14581"
postdate = "2019-12-11"
archivedate = "2020-05-13"
draft = "false"
+++
Princeton University Library (PUL) seeks an energetic, creative librarian to provide
outstanding research assistance and collection development for faculty, students and 
researchers in labor economics and industrial relations, and to act as liaison to the 
Industrial Relations (IR) Section of the Economics Department.
 
Reporting to the Assistant University Librarian for Research Services, the Labor Economics 
(LE) Librarian is part of the social sciences team. This position supports faculty, visiting
 scholars, students and staff in economics, public policy, politics and related fields, 
providing consultations, workshops, course-based instruction, outreach and online guides.
 Core responsibilities include research consultation for undergraduates (particularly for 
independent research requirements in 3rd and 4th years) and for graduate students. 
Research methods may include use of terabyte-sized datasets and archival work in economic
 history. Collaboration with other librarians and specialists who serve the same group of
 researchers will be essential for success.

The LE Librarian builds collections in human resources management, labor economics  and 
industrial relations and helps develop and interpret Princeton's collections.  The position 
manages large acquisitions funds and approval plans; advises on preservation, digitization 
and collection maintenance; curates exhibits in the IR Reading Room, and oversees the 
production of Selected References, an annual annotated bibliography produced by the IR Section.
The position represents PUL in regional, national and international professional meetings 
and partnerships; and participates in inter-institutional initiatives for coordinated 
collection development, digitization and other projects.

PUL is one of the world's leading research libraries with a dedicated, knowledgeable staff of 
300 in a large central library, 9 specialized branches and 3 storage facilities. PUL supports
 a diverse community of 5,200 undergrads, 2,700 graduates, 1,200 faculty, and many visiting
 scholars.
 
### Qualifications

**Required:** 

- An ALA-accredited MLS degree and work experience related to economics, economic history,
 labor history, industrial relations, human resource management, politics, business, public
 policy, or sociology OR an advanced degree in any of the above fields.
- 2+ years work experience in a research library or comparable experience in an academic 
setting conducting instruction, research consultations and outreach.
- Broad knowledge of labor economics, including scholarly resources and bibliographic tools,
 current trends in digital scholarship, print and digital publishing.
- Excellent interpersonal skills, project management skills and the ability to work 
successfully and collegially with a diverse group of scholars and colleagues.

**Preferred:**

- Work experience related to labor economics, industrial relations, human resource management
 or labor history.
- An advanced degree in a field related to labor economics, industrial relations, human 
resources management or labor history.
- 2+ years work experience in an academic setting conducting instruction, research 
consultations and outreach.
- 2+ years of work experience with labor economics datasets or micro-data.
- Work experience in an academic research library, especially with historical archives.
- Experience with new technologies for discovery and learning in a rapidly changing
 environment.

Application review will begin January 15th. 

The successful candidate will be appointed to an appropriate Librarian rank depending upon qualifications and experience. Applications will be accepted only from the AHIRE system through the office of the Dean of the Faculty website: https://www.princeton.edu/acad-positions/position/14581 and must include a resume, cover letter, and a list of three references with full contact information. This position is subject to the University's background check policy.

Requisition No: D-20-LIB-00003