+++
title = "Assistant Research Scientist" 
employer =  "University of Michigan, ICPSR"
employerurl = "https://www.umich.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.umich.edu/job_detail/181242/assistant_research_scientist"
postdate = "2019-12-06"
archivedate = "2021-02-06"
draft = "false"
+++
**Assistant Research Scientist**

**Job Summary**

The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR) in the Institute for Social Research (ISR) at the University of Michigan invites applications for a faculty rank Assistant Research Scientist with a focus on education data.

ICPSR maintains research and data archiving projects that advance social science research, while collaborating with other units at the University of Michigan and beyond. ICPSR Research faculty conduct independent research and contribute to the development of archival data collections, as well as extramural funded projects, to build data archiving infrastructure.

**Responsibilities**

This position will collaborate with investigators at ICPSR and elsewhere. The successful candidate will contribute leadership across multiple education projects to expand access to and promote the use of research data. Specifically, this person will lead education-related data projects, ensure archive security, manage access to restricted use data, direct data curation to support research and evidence-building, and promote data use in the education research community. Education-related projects vary in scope: early childhood, K-12, and post-secondary education are all a focus.
Required Qualifications

A Ph.D. in Education, Sociology, Public Policy, or a closely-related field is required. A demonstrated interest in and familiarity with education datasets is preferred. Other required qualifications include: experience writing and/or leading extramural grants and contracts; strong leadership and administrative skills with exceptional attention to detail; a proven ability to work with data, including survey data; a familiarity with relevant software and research tools, and strong writing skills. The ideal candidate will join ICPSR in the early spring of 2020.

**Additional Information**

We are accepting applications until January 15, 2020, but will begin reviewing applications starting December 10, 2019.

The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social, part of the Institute for Social Research at the University of Michigan, seeks to recruit and retain a diverse workforce as a reflection of our commitment to serve the diverse people of Michigan, to maintain the excellence of the university, and to ground our research in varied disciplines, perspectives, and ways of knowing and learning.

The University of Michigan is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.