+++
title = "Assistant Professor / Academic Services Librarian" 
employer =  "Kansas State University"
employerurl = "https://www.k-state.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.umich.edu/job_detail/180525/restricted_data_access_and_data_privacy_assistant"
postdate = "2019-11-01"
archivedate = "2021-02-06"
draft = "false"
+++
**Academic Services Librarian**

**About This Role:**

Company Libraries seek an energetic, creative, and committed individual for the position of Academic Services Librarian with a focus on social sciences data services.  This person will support social sciences research, including providing assistance and instruction in the discovery and use of locally and externally available data.

Following a May 22, 2018 fire in Hale Library, the university’s main library, the administration, faculty and staff, who had been looking forward to the creation of a first-floor learning commons, have instead reimagined the entire library from the ground up.

This is a 12 month, full-time tenure-track academic appointment carrying full faculty status and responsibilities including scholarship and service to meet both the Libraries’ and the University’s requirements for tenure and promotion.  To be successful in this position, the incumbent must  demonstrate excellent interpersonal, communication, and organizational skills to establish and maintain productive working relationships with colleagues in an environment where flexibility and collaboration are essential.  The ideal candidate will possess a strong commitment to providing excellent user service, a demonstrated ability to develop productive partnerships within and across the organization, and an ability to use technology in creative ways to solve problems and create efficiencies.  This position reports to the Social Sciences/Education/Business team lead.

**Responsibilities:**

- Provide consultation, research support, and instruction for faculty and students in social sciences. Serve as the Libraries’ liaison to appropriate departments and programs as assigned, which may include geography, political science, and psychological sciences.
- Proactively build and maintain collaborative relationships with social sciences faculty, researchers, and graduate students, in order to increase understanding of the information needs of the research community.
- Provide consultation, research support and instruction in the discovery, use, and visualization of statistical and numerical data resources to social sciences disciplines, and where appropriate to the broader campus community.
- Support the development of information literacy and data literacy skills for faculty and students.
- Maintain current awareness and understanding of developments and trends in social sciences data services and data tools.
- Collaborate with Content Development librarians to select and acquire data resources in the social sciences for use by the Company community.
- Work closely with metadata specialists, other technical services librarians and staff, computer services consultants, and public services personnel to ensure that users are able to access sources of data easily and reliably.
- May represent and act as Company Libraries’ liaison to state, national, or international data organizations, such as the Inter-University Consortia for Political and Social Research (ICPSR), the Data Documentation Initiative Alliance (DDI), the Roper Center, or the Association of Public Data Users.
- Participate in professional development activities and professional organizations, or sections of organizations, devoted to data stewardship.
- Pursue activities and meet responsibilities necessary for achieving tenure at Company Libraries

**We Support Diversity and Inclusion:**

We embrace diversity and inclusion. The university actively seeks individuals who foster a collegial environment and cooperative interactions with coworkers, students, and others.  The University is dedicated to promoting the Principles of Community.

**What You’ll Need to Succeed:**

**Minimum Requirements:**

- MLS/MLIS degree from an ALA accredited institution
- Demonstrated experience with social science research methods and sources
- Demonstrated experience with the use of data in teaching and research
- Familiarity with major data resources and tools and the ability to advise users regarding the use of data
- Experience working with and manipulating data sets
- Ability to manage time and multiple projects in a complex, changing environment with a positive, flexible, creative and innovative attitude
- Ability and willingness to work with diverse groups

**Preferred Qualifications:**

- Undergraduate degree or additional advanced degree in a relevant field
- Experience conducting information literacy instruction sessions and providing research consultations in an academic library environment
- Experience using statistical, and Geographic Information Systems (GIS) software such as ArcGIS, QGIS, scripting and programming languages such as Python, and JavaScript, and related software. Experience using data management and visualization and analysis tools such as PowerBI, Open Refine, Tableau, NVIVO, SAS, SPSS and R
- Experience using government data resources
- Grant writing experience and familiarity with federal funding requirements
- Evidence of strong analytic and problem-solving skills

**How to Apply:**

Combine the following documents into asingle PDF file and upload it along with your completed application:

1. A letter of application. To greatly strengthen your application, please apply your communication skills to clearly address the position responsibilities and qualifications listed above, and demonstrate how your work style, vision, and other distinctive qualities would enhance our organization.

2. A curriculum vitae.

1. Names and contact information for three professional references.

**Anticipated Hiring Salary Range:**

The Libraries aim to attract exceptional talent, and we offer competitive salary in recognition of responsibilities and experience.