+++
nid = "8102"
jid = "00621"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2020-01-08 08:32"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8102"
title = "GIS Specialist"
employer = "University of Illinois Library at Urbana-Champaign"
employerurl = "https://www.library.illinois.edu/"
postdate = "2019-10-10"
archivedate = "2020-01-08"
draft = "false"
+++
The Engineering & Construction Services Facilities Information Resources
Unit at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign seeks a GIS
Specialist to help lead the expansion of Facilities Information
Resources geographic information systems products and services.
Facilities Information Resources (FIR) maintains documentation and
information systems related to campus infrastructure, and offers
value-added custom services to enhance campus preparedness, awareness,
knowledge and efficiency. The department is comprised of four units:
Mapping and Drafting, Graphic Design, Records and Library, and Space
Inventory.

Under the general supervision of the Facilities Information Management
Coordinator this position is responsible for managing the day-to-day
operations, development, and coordination of the Mapping and Drafting
unit. The GIS Specialist is also responsible for production work
involving development and maintenance of FIR Geographic Information
Systems (GIS).

**Duties and responsibilities include:**

-   Work closely with Energy Services, Utility Distribution Staff;
    managing, documenting and maintaining the University's utility
    distribution systems GIS data.
-   Work collaboratively with Facilities & Services (F&S) IT unit to
    develop and maintain client ESRI ArcGIS web applications and
    services with ASP.NET, Java,
-   JavaScript, HTML, web scripting and SQL programming.
-   Work collaboratively with F&S IT to develop, deploy, and maintain
    GIS applications built with ArcGIS extensions and ArcGIS Server.
-   Utilize ESRI's suite of ArcGIS software applications with relational
    databases including MS Access and SQL Server.
-   Manage and maintain Facilities Information Resources' GIS data in
    SQL Server SDE environment.
-   Coordinate cross-unit initiatives to standardize controls and access
    to GIS related resources.
-   Develop custom maps for Facilities Information Resources, F&S, and
    campus Use Global Positioning System (GPS) equipment to collect
    data.
-   Conduct fieldwork to verify facility management information.
-   Supervise student staff, prioritize work.
-   Train staff on the use of GIS applications.
-   Assume appropriate related additional duties to further the mission
    of the unit.
  
**Minimum Education Requirements:**
Bachelor's degree required in Geographic Information Science (GIS),
Computer Science, or other related field.

**Minimum Required Work Experience:**
Two (2) years of experience working with Geographic Information
Systems.
One (1) year of experience developing ArcGIS web service applications
Two (2) years of experience working with ESRI ArcGIS Desktop and ArcSDE

**Additional Preferred Education and Work Experience:**
Master's degree preferred
Knowledge and understanding of basic geography information systems
management functions.
ArcGIS Server including programming with one or more of the following:
ASP.NET, Java, JavaScript, HTML, web scripting or SQL
Excellent organization skills; ability to prioritize workload, work
independently with minimum supervision, and take initiative.
Basic computer skills and the ability to learn new software and computer
systems.
Working knowledge of Microsoft office suite Excel, Access, Word and
PowerPoint.
Experience working across multiple organizational levels.
Basic understanding of large scale utility distribution systems
Strong customer service values and skills.
Creative problem solving skills.
