+++
nid = "8101"
jid = "00620"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2020-01-08 07:46"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8101"
title = "Research Data Management Specialist: Digital Initiatives"
employer = "McGill University"
employerurl = "https://www.mcgill.ca"
postdate = "2019-09-26"
archivedate = "2020-01-08"
draft = "false"
+++
The McGill Library seeks a creative, knowledgeable, and entrepreneurial
Research Data Management Specialist to spearhead the development and
implementation of strong research data management services at the McGill
Library, promote good data management practices within the McGill
community, and expand research data partnerships on campus.

**Primary Purpose of Position**

Spearheads the development and implementation of strong research data
management services at the McGill Library, promotes good data management
practices within the McGill community, and expands research data
partnerships on campus.

Duties and responsibilities include, but are not limited to:

 

-   Guide, formalize, and grow the implementation of the Library's
    research data management services. Ensure services support funder,
    publisher, and disciplinary requirements, expectations, and norms,
    are in accordance with emerging best practices for research data
    management in research institutions, and match McGill campus-wide
    research data management framework. Ensure the Library provides
    adequate and up-to-date documentation for users in support of these
    services.
-   Provide outreach and individual consulting to campus researchers and
    research groups on the fundamentals of research data management
    issues, including data management planning, funding agency
    requirements, data citation practices, open data, and research data
    lifecycle management.
-   Work collaboratively with McGill Library's subject liaison
    librarians to provide discipline-specific, in-depth advice on
    applying data management best practices to individual research
    projects within the McGill context. Provide support to public
    services staff in their interactions with researchers that involve
    the production or curation of research data.
-   In collaboration with staff from the Office of the Vice-Principal
    (Research and Innovation), build knowledge and awareness of research
    data management issues and practices among Library staff, campus
    partners, and the campus research community.

 

-   Expand and solidify the Library's campus partnerships for research
    data support, such as those with the Office of the Vice-Principal
    (Research and Innovation), the Office of Sponsored Research, key
    faculties and departments, and Associate Deans for Research.
    Represents the Library in key campus venues related to research data
    management.
-   Develop and keep up to date written plans and goals for the
    implementation of Library-based research data management services
    and support the Office of the Vice-Principal (Research and
    Innovation) and other campus stakeholders in setting and assessing
    benchmarks for the growth of campus research data management
    practices and adherence to local frameworks.
-   Stay abreast of provincial, national, and international research
    data management infrastructure initiatives, policy developments, and
    professional practices, and integrate these into daily work.
-   Manage selected Library technology projects related to research data
    management.

 
  
**Required:**

1.  D. in a research data-focused discipline.
2.  Demonstrated in-depth knowledge of research data curation trends and
    issues in the Canadian academic environment, including Canadian
    research data initiatives; disciplinary, institutional, and
    collaborative data repositories; funder and publisher mandates; data
    citation principles and practices; research data lifecycle best
    practices; and data management planning.
3.  Ability to translate overall best practices in research data
    management into concrete advice for individual researchers, in
    specific domains, and in the McGill context.
4.  Demonstrated skill in describing complex concepts in a simple and
    convincing way. Ability to adjust explanations and training methods
    to specific audiences, especially researchers, university
    administrators, and library staff.
5.  Experience applying entrepreneurial approaches to building
    awareness, advocacy, and education programs, and assessing their
    effectiveness.
6.  Demonstrated project management skills for technical and service
    design initiatives.
7.  Highly developed oral and written skills and ability to communicate
    clearly and concisely.
8.  Ability to interact effectively and work collaboratively with
    diverse stakeholders, including academics and technology staff.
9.  Creative and analytical thinking skills and good problem solving
    ability

**Preferred:**

Ability to effectively participate in Quebec-wide committee work
conducted primarily in French.
