+++
nid = "8073"
jid = "00590"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2020-01-02 07:45"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8073"
title = "Data Management Consultant "
employer = "Johns Hopkins University"
employerurl = "https://www.jhu.edu/"
postdate = "2019-04-01"
archivedate = "2020-01-02"
draft = "false"
+++
Provide consultative data management planning support and training to
JHU researchers as part of the Data Services team, administratively
located in the Data Management Directorate. Maintain rich understanding
of data management best practices for data sharing, curating, and
archiving. Track funder sharing policies and compliance expectations.
Support researchers in identifying research data sharing and archiving
solutions, including deposit into the JHU Data Archive.

**Environment:**

Sheridan Libraries Digital Research and Curation Center has played a
significant role in managing initiatives to explore deep curation needs
with Sloan Digital Sky Survey data, reviewing repository infrastructure
and platforms, and leading the Data Conservancy, a community focused on
the development of solutions to digital research data collection,
curation, and preservation challenges.  In 2011 the JHU Data Management
Services (JHUDMS) unit was launched from expertise and experience gained
through the Data Conservancy in collaboration with the Entrepreneurial
Library program. The JHU Data Management Consultants provide research
data management services and solutions for the Johns Hopkins community
and has a strong track record of incremental and impactful success in
growing data management support and services for the community. In 2017,
JHUDMS and GIS came together to form the [Data
Services](https://dataservices.library.jhu.edu/) team.

The Sheridan Libraries and University Museums encompass the Milton S.
Eisenhower Library, the historic [George Peabody
Library](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Peabody_Library), the
Albert D. Hutzler Reading Room, the DC Centers, the Evergreen Museum
and [John Work Garrett
Library](http://www.museums.jhu.edu/evergreen.php?section=collections&collection=john-work-garrett-library),
and the Homewood Museum. Staff from the libraries and museums teach
classes, curate exhibitions, produce scholarship and serve as principle
investigators for research initiatives. A key partner in the academic
enterprise, the library is a leader in the innovative application of
information technology and has implemented notable diversity and
organizational development programs. The Sheridan Libraries and
University Museums are strongly committed to diversity. A strategic goal
of the Libraries and Museums is to 'work toward achieving diversity when
recruiting new and promoting existing staff.'  For information on the
Sheridan Libraries,
visit [www.library.jhu.edu](http://www.library.jhu.edu/).

 

**Specific Duties & Responsibilities:**

-   Manage inquiries from researchers for data management support on a
    range of topics that support best practices throughout the research
    lifecycle.
-   Provide consultative support to researchers including evaluation of
    data planning needs, assessing options for sharing data, catering
    planning to specific granting agency or publisher requirements, and
    editing data management plans.
-   Track specific scientific and subject domain areas building
    knowledge and expertise in data types, formats, and needs within
    domains that support data management and sharing throughout the
    research lifecycle.
-   Identify data standards, metadata standards, best practices for data
    management, etc. to continuously build expertise and improve
    provision of service.
-   Maintain knowledge on a broad range of data repositories including
    their submission, Intellectual Property, and use arrangements, and
    provide guidance on repository selection for deposit.
-   Develop and deliver data management training programs, including
    in-person and online training materials and resources.
-   Proactively collaborate and coordinate to implement data management
    and sharing strategies, including coordinating data deposits with
    researchers, curating research data, and preparing collections for
    archiving in the JHU Data Archive.
-   Collaborate with colleagues throughout the university libraries and
    research administration to effectively communicate services to
    faculty, researchers, and departments.
-   Manage short and long-term communications and relationships with
    researchers, PIs, and students, including outreach and training in
    data management best practices.
-   Liaise with JHU-wide staff and administrators to support the
    continued integration and visibility of data management services
    available to researchers.
  
**Minimum Qualifications (Mandatory):**

-   A relevant advanced degree.  
-   A minimum of three (3) years combined of library, information
    technology, informatics, and/or scientific research experience.
-   Experience with one or more components of the research data life
    cycle:  creation, processing, analyzing, preserving, providing
    access to, and re-using.
-   Must be self-motivated, pro-active, willing to take on new
    challenges and solve problems with minimal supervision.
-   Good listener with a high degree of customer orientation.
-   Superb people skills, strong team-orientation, and professional
    attitude.
-   Clear and consistent communicator. 
-   Strong writing skills.
-   Strong project planning, management, and execution skills.
-   Demonstrated ability to work with and easily adapt to new
    technology.

 

**Preferred Qualifications:**

-   Experience working with scientific or health sciences data
    management and/or data curation and archiving.
-   Experience conducting trainings and workshop presentations.
-   Experience with standard packages or statistical languages for
    working with data, such as R, SPSS, STATA, MATLAB, Python, etc.
-   Knowledge of the Open Science Framework (OSF), Electronic Lab
    Notebooks (ELNs), or other platforms for collaborative research.
-   Experience working with large data sets and/or high performance
    computing.
-   Knowledge of methods and best practices for the curation of software
    and research code.
