+++
title = "Practice Leads - Data Management and Information Management"
employer = "Stats NZ Tatauranga Aotearoa"
employerurl = "https://stats.govt.nz"
moreinfourl = "https://bit.ly/2NZfqoA"
postdate = "2019-11-20"
archivedate = "2020-05-13"
draft = "false"
+++
At Stats NZ Tatauranga Aotearoa, our vision is to unleash the power of data to change lives. As New Zealand’s official data and statistics agency, we are tasked with leading the way for New Zealand’s data future, enabling data-led innovation across society, the economy, and the environment.

### The purpose of the roles  

We have two exciting leadership roles available in the Data and Information Management Team.   

As **Practice Lead – Data Management** you will lead and develop data management practices within Stats NZ. The focus of this role is on improving the management of the data and metadata that is required to support Stats NZ’s statistical services and outputs.  

As **Practice Lead – Information Management** you will lead and develop information management practices within Stats NZ. The focus of this role is on the corporate records and information required to support the business of Stats NZ.

Key to success in both roles is the ability to:

- Lead and drive projects and programmes of work.
- Effective engagement and relationships with key players and a strong customer focus.
- Critical and analytical thinking to address complex problems and identify solutions.
- Comfort working with people across the business including executive leaders, manger, technical specialists and busy front-line staff.
- Comfort with the ambiguity of a new role and be able to bring structure and influence stakeholders.
- Passion for developing people, and building organisational capability.
- Understand the business of Stats NZ and the needs of our customers.
- Engage and build relationships with people across the business.  

### Person specifications

- Qualifications or equivalent experience in a relevant discipline such as data management, data science, records/information management, or librarianship.
- At least five years of experience in data and/or information management including experience leading projects and programmes of work.
- Able to effectively lead and contribute to collaborative design processes.  

### What’s in it for you?

You’ll be joining an inclusive environment in which all people, regardless of gender, race, religion or background can come and do their best work. Our goal is to provide our staff with a working environment that provides them with the opportunity to:

- have challenging, varied and interesting work
- develop and grow their careers
- balance life and work, and
- work in an agile, dynamic and flexible manner.

We care about our people, and value your drive, energy and inquisitive nature. Bottom line, we are in search of real people that don’t believe in the status quo and seek to add value every day.

We’re also offering remuneration for this role between $88,327 - $119,501 depending on the skills and experience you bring to the role.

If you are a passionate and talented person who relishes the idea of becoming part of NZ’s data ecosystem, then come join our team!   

### Contact details   

If this job sounds like you, please apply. 

<!--For more information about this role please contact Paddy Power on cell ph: +6427 213 9646, or email paddy.power@stats.govt.nz.-->

For more about working for us see http://careers.stats.govt.nz/,  

Applications close:  Monday 2nd December 2019 
