+++
nid = "8077"
jid = "00594"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2020-01-02 07:56"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8077"
title = "Data Services Coordinator"
employer = "UNC Greensboro Libraries "
employerurl = "https://library.uncg.edu/"
postdate = "2019-04-23"
archivedate = "2020-01-02"
draft = "false"
+++
The UNC Greensboro Libraries invite applications for the position of
Data Services Coordinator. We are seeking an energetic, innovative,
flexible, and service-oriented individual to join the Research, Outreach
and Instruction Department (ROI). Reporting to the Head of ROI, the Data
Services Coordinator will support the data needs of faculty, staff, and
students at UNC Greensboro by coordinating data service initiatives
across the libraries. The Coordinator will also provide oversight for
government information. The UNC Greensboro University Libraries are a
selective Federal Depository and a North Carolina Depository.

In addition, the librarian will also serve as a subject liaison. This is
a 12-month tenure-track librarian position with salary and benefits
distributed over 12 months.

Responsibilities:

-   Develop research services related to the discovery, management, and
    visualization of research data.
-   Collaborate with units across campus to provide and promote
    high-quality data services
-   Identify software and tools supporting the discovery, management,
    analysis, and visualization of research data
-   Deliver expert one-on-one consultations to faculty, students, and
    staff supporting research data needs.
-   Develop and lead dynamic in-person and online instructional
    programming on data-related topics and tools.
-   Supervise the GIS/Data Visualization Librarian and the Government
    Documents Library Technician
-   Serve as a liaison to academic departments
-   Serve as Official Representative to the Inter-university Consortium
    for Political and Social Research.
-   Provide oversight for government information and the depository
    collections.
  
Minimum Qualifications

-   Master's Degree in library and/or information science from an
    ALA-accredited program
-   Minimum of 3 years of library experience supporting quantitative
    and/or qualitative research data services
-   Demonstrated experience working with statistical software (such as
    SPSS or SAS) or scientific programming (such as R or Python)
-   Knowledge of freely available and subscription data sources, such as
    Census and ICPSR
-   Knowledge of trends in data management throughout the research
    lifecycle, including creating, processing, preservation, access, and
    reuse of research data
-   Excellent written and oral communication skills
-   Demonstrated service orientation and skills
-   Ability to work collaboratively and effectively with colleagues and
    patrons in a highly collaborative team environment

Preferred Qualifications

-   Supervisory experience
-   Familiarity with software for geospatial, and/or qualitative
    analysis (such as QGIS, ArcGIS, Atlas.ti, or NVivo).
-   Additional advanced degree in a relevant social science discipline,
    such as Sociology, Geography or Political Science
-   Experience helping researchers with data management planning
-   Familiarity with data visualization tools such as Tableau
