+++
nid = "8079"
jid = "00596"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2020-01-07 07:40"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8079"
title = "Manager of Statistical Support Services"
employer = "Yale University"
employerurl = "https://www.yale.edu/"
postdate = "2019-05-01"
archivedate = "2020-01-07"
draft = "false"
+++
Yale University offers exciting opportunities for achievement and growth
in New Haven, Connecticut. Conveniently located between Boston and New
York, New Haven is the creative capital of Connecticut with cultural
resources that include three major museums, a critically-acclaimed
repertory theater, state-of-the-art concert hall, and world-renowned
schools of Architecture, Art, Drama, and Music.

**General Purpose:**

The Manager of Statistical Support Services provides consultation in
statistical methods and analysis to Yale researchers. The incumbent is
responsible for planning, delivering, coordinating, and promoting a
program of instruction in statistical tools and analysis. This position
supervises a team of graduate students who support quantitative and
qualitative analysis and assesses the quality and relevance of the
team's consultation services and instruction. This position solicits
and incorporates input from stakeholders to improve services and ensure
that statistical support offerings are aligned with curricular and
research needs.

The Manager of Statistical Support Services oversees a program that
reaches Yale affiliates from a variety of disciplines, departments, and
schools, and with diverse skills and needs related to statistics and
data. The individual in this role plays an essential part in fostering
an inclusive and supportive environment for questions, exploration, and
learning.

This position works under the supervision of the Director of Research
Support and Outreach Programs for the Center for Science and Social
Science Information (CSSSI). As a member of the CSSSI team, the Manager
of Statistical Support Services works closely with data and GIS
librarians, subject specialist librarians, and research data specialists
to support the teaching and research needs of individuals, labs, and
departments. This position also collaborates with partners across the
university including the Center for Research Computing, the Poorvu
Center for Teaching and Learning, and the Institution for Social and
Policy Studies to provide assistance with statistical methods and tools.

 

1.  Advises Yale students, faculty, and researchers on relevant methods
    and tools for statistical analysis, data collection, data
    management, and data visualization.
2.  Hires, trains, schedules, and evaluates the work of a team of
    graduate students providing quantitative and qualitative data
    analysis consultation and instruction.
3.  Serves as a resource for student consultants and researchers with
    complex needs by providing deep and broad expertise in quantitative
    analysis and a variety of statistical tools.
4.  Independently, and in collaboration with data and GIS librarians,
    creates instructional materials, tutorials, and online documentation
    relevant to statistical analysis, data collection, data management,
    and related topics.
5.  Provides course-integrated or department-specific instruction and
    statistical support as needed.
6.  With input from faculty and researchers, selects and receives
    recommendations for statistical software and tools.
7.  In consultation with the CSSSI Director of Collection Management,
    Access and Technical Services, and Technology, recommends
    specifications for software, computer hardware, and other technology
    in support of the program and assists in ongoing assessment and
    maintenance.
8.  Promotes statistical support services through a variety of outreach
    methods, including a website, email list, social media, promotional
    materials, and events.
9.  Practices ongoing, meaningful assessment activities in order to
    continuously improve statistical support services.
10. Participates in campus-wide research data support services groups.
11. Participates in CSSSI and Yale University Library planning,
    committees, and work groups to support research, teaching, and
    learning. Engages in campus, regional and national professional
    organizations and collaborative activities. Monitors developments
    and best practices elsewhere to help ensure the excellence of Yale's
    research support services.
  
**Required Education and Experience:**

Masters degree in the Social Sciences, Computer Science, Information
Science or related field and four years of experience in an academic
environment, or equivalent combination of education and experience.
Demonstrated proficiency with advanced quantitative and/or qualitative
data analysis, methodology and related software (such as SAS, Stata, R,
MATLAB, Mathematica, NVivo, etc) in an academic setting. Possess firm
understanding of technical applications in statistical research and
instruction. Excellent oral and written communication skills;
demonstrated analytical and organizational skills. Demonstrated ability
to design projects related to statistics, data resources, geospatial
and/or social science computing and bring them to a timely conclusion.
Demonstrated ability to work both independently and in a team
environment.

 

**Qualifications:**

-   Demonstrated proficiency with quantitative statistical analysis,
    methodologies, and related software (such as SAS, Stata, R, MATLAB,
    Mathematica, etc.) in an academic setting.
-   Demonstrated proficiency with statistical research, consulting, and
    instruction.
-   Demonstrated ability to design projects and bring them to a timely
    conclusion.
-   Excellent oral, written, and interpersonal communication skills.
    Demonstrated analytical and organizational skills. Demonstrated
    ability to work both independently and in a team environment.
-   Demonstrated ability to provide exceptional customer service to a
    diverse clientele.
-   **Preferred Education and Experience**: PhD in a social science,
    computer science, or library/info science. Experience teaching
    statistical analysis, methods, and tools to diverse audiences.
    Experience with: qualitative tools and analysis; data management;
    relational databases; data visualization tools; metadata standards;
    and/or programming languages.
