+++
nid = "8044"
jid = "00602"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2019-05-22 13:23"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8044"
title = "Survey Associate"
employer = "VentureWell"
employerurl = "https://venturewell.org"
postdate = "2019-05-22"
archivedate = "2019-05-22"
draft = "false"
+++
Measuring impact and strengthening and improving our programs is an
important part of our
work. In this role you will work closely with our evaluators to
implement and conduct surveys
and other online questionnaires. This position is part of our
growing data systems and monitoring team, and will contribute to
strengthening and
expanding our data pipeline and resulting data products.

Responsibilities:

-   Build and manage surveys and other online questionnaires.
-   Work collaboratively with others to ensure the successful
    development, launch, and monitoring of surveys.
-   Ensure that survey design aligns with existing data model and
    technical requirements.
-   Ensure data integration and CRM configuration best practices and
    standards are upheld.
-   Produce documentation of the questionnaire development process, data
    collection methods, and other decision points as needed
-   Set up and manage the integration between data collection tools and
    Salesforce CRM.
-   Monitor and evaluate survey progress and performance.
-   Review, classify, and record survey data in preparation for
    analysis.
-   Prepare and present summaries of survey data, including tables,
    graphs, and factsheets that describe survey techniques and results
    as needed.
  
Requirements:

-   Bachelor's degree required or equivalent experience
-   Experience with survey form design and survey methodology
-   Proven experience with systems integration and administration
-   Comfortable giving and receiving feedback, including facility toward
    open debate and data-driven advocacy that is direct, constructive,
    compassionate, and results in better products and client outcomes
-   Experience with coding language and visualization a plus
-   Salesforce and third party application integration experience a plus
