+++
title = "Senior Research Data Officer" 
employer =  "UK Data Service"
employerurl = "https://www.essex.ac.uk"
moreinfourl = "https://vacancies.essex.ac.uk/tlive_webrecruitment/wrd/run/ETREC107GF.open?VACANCY_ID=180213LU76&WVID=9918109NEm&LANG=USA"
postdate = "2019-12-19"
archivedate = "2021-02-06"
draft = "false"
+++
The University has a strong commitment to diversity and this means actively helping staff to combine work and home life effectively. The University recognises the importance of maintaining a healthy balance between work and other aspects of life and offers a comprehensive flexible working policy including a career break scheme.

We are proud to have a number of Equality and Diversity staff Networks including: Essex Women's Network, Parent's Network, Access Forum, Global Forum, Essex LGBT Alliance
Job details

Job title: Senior Research Data Officer, UK Data Archive 
: Job reference: REQ03473 
: Application closing date: 19/01/2020 
: Location: Colchester 
: Salary: £33,797 - £40,322 per annum (pro-rata for part-time) 
: Employment type: Fixed-term, Full-time (part-time considered) 
: Job category/type: Professional 

**Job description**

**UK Data Archive**

The UK Data Archive is the lead organisation of the UK Data Service, which provides unified access to regional, national and international social and economic data, support for policy-relevant research and guidance and training for the development of skills in data curation and use.

The UK Data Service is seeking a dynamic and confident research data expert to join its Collections Development and Data Publishing team at the UK Data Service and lead on ethical and legal aspects of research data management, sharing and reuse.

**Duties of the Role**

The post-holder will work proactively with researchers, ESRC grant holders and research centres to provide guidance, advice and training to achieve implementation of good data management practices, and to optimise the sharing and archiving of data for research within the context of the ESRC Research Data Policy.

In the post, you will be expected to provide legal and ethical expertise, carry out external training and capacity building and perform data appraisal and review, all whilst understanding the security requirements for the management of personal data in the context of the UK Data Archive.

A full list of duties and responsibilities can be found within the job pack.

**Qualifications and Skills required**

Applicants are expected to hold both an undergraduate degree or equivalent (BA, BSc) and a postgraduate qualification (MA, MSc, PG diploma, PhD) in Social Science or other relevant discipline.

Experience of undertaking research and data analysis in the social sciences are essential, as well as good knowledge of data privacy and ethics in social sciences. Excellent communication, time management and problem solving skills are equally important.

This is a fixed-term post until 31 March 2021, due to the nature of the funding, with a start date as soon as possible. We will consider applications from anyone looking to work between 18 and 36 hours per week. Please state clearly on your application if you are applying for full-time or part-time hours.

This post involves access to Government systems, information or data and will be subject to the staff vetting process. Further information can be found in the job pack.

At the University of Essex internationalism is central to who we are and what we do. We are committed to being a cosmopolitan, internationally-oriented university that is welcoming to staff and students from all countries and a university where you can find the world in one place.

Please see the attached job pack for a full job description and person specification, which outlines the full duties, skills, qualifications and experience needed for this role plus more information relating to the post. We recommend you read this information carefully before making an application.  Applications should be made on-line, but if you would like advice or help in making an application, or need information in a different format, please telephone the Resourcing Team (01206 876559).