+++
nid = "8075"
jid = "00592"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2020-01-02 07:49"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8075"
title = "Administrator for the Philadelphia Federal Statistical Research Data Center"
employer = "Philadelphia Federal Statistical Research Data Center "
employerurl = "http://web.sas.upenn.edu/pfsrdc/"
postdate = "2019-04-05"
archivedate = "2020-01-02"
draft = "false"
+++
The U.S. Census Bureau will hire one full-time or two part-time Research
Data Center Administrator(s) (RDC Admin) at the Philadelphia Federal
Statistical Research Data Center (FSRDC) this year. Qualified candidates
will have a research background and experience managing projects. The
anticipated start date will be in the summer or fall of 2019.

The Philadelphia FSRDC, located at the Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia, provides a secure environment where qualified researchers
conduct approved statistical research using restricted micro-level data
collected by the Census Bureau, the National Center for Health
Statistics, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, the Bureau
of Labor Statistics, the Bureau of Economic Analysis, and other federal
agencies. The Philadelphia FSRDC is operated by a consortium of
institutions, including Drexel University, the Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania State University, Temple University, and the
University of Pennsylvania. The Philadelphia FSRDC is part of the FSRDC
network administered by the Center for Enterprise Dissemination at the
U.S. Census Bureau. Further details on the network, data available, and
research conducted in FSRDCs can be found at
<https://www.census.gov/ces/index.html>.

Primary responsibilities for this position include:

-   Assisting researchers from many disciplines, including economics,
    geography, health services, epidemiology, sociology, demography,
    social work, urban planning, business, environmental science, and
    data science in developing successful proposals and conducting
    research at the Philadelphia FSRDC.
-   Reviewing researcher output produced at the Philadelphia FSRDC for
    compliance with Census disclosure standards.
-   Overseeing daily operations of the Philadelphia FSRDC lab.
-   Serving as a liaison between the Census Bureau and the Philadelphia
    FSRDC.
-   Assisting the Executive Directors in marketing the center to the
    research community in Philadelphia and beyond.
  
The position requires U.S. citizenship.

The ideal candidate for the full-time Administrator position will have,
or be working toward, an advanced degree in economics, demography,
sociology, or a related field; experience in multiple disciplines; a
background in statistical methods; and strong organizational skills.
