+++
nid = "8046"
jid = "00571"
uid = "668"
deprecated-post-date = "2019-05-22 13:31"
deprecated-path = "/resources/jobs/8046"
title = "Business and Entrepreneurship Librarian "
employer = "Northwestern University "
employerurl = "https://www.northwestern.edu/"
postdate = "2019-01-14"
archivedate = "2019-05-22"
draft = "false"
+++
Northwestern University Libraries seek an enthusiastic, collaborative,
and user-focused librarian with skills and knowledge pertinent to
business researchers across multiple disciplines. Joining a team of
librarians active in research services, instruction, and academic
engagement, the Business and Entrepreneurship Librarian will partner
with other librarians, technical specialists, and faculty to develop
innovative services that advance the use of business information in
teaching, in research, and in planning new business ventures. Key
opportunities of the position include working directly with student
entrepreneurs as they develop and launch startups, serving as a liaison
to students and faculty in the department of Economics, and being the
primary link between Northwestern Libraries and a variety of
interdisciplinary academic programs at the undergraduate and graduate
levels that foster the use of business data and resources in fields such
as marketing, journalism, engineering, communication, and the
humanities. The Business and Entrepreneurship Librarian works closely
with the Business and Management Librarian, who serves as the primary
liaison to the Kellogg School of Management, to coordinate collection
development for business resources. By collaborating with specialists in
data services, scholarly communication, government information, digital
scholarship, and other areas, the Business and Entrepreneurship
Librarian connects students and faculty to the full range of resources
and services Northwestern Libraries offer.

**Key Responsibilities**

-   Actively engages with faculty and students to provide innovative
    instruction and expert research assistance in the areas of
    economics, business, marketing, and entrepreneurship. Cultivates
    partnerships and working relationships to facilitate research in
    those areas, drawing upon the range of services and expertise of the
    NorthwesternLibraries.
-   Manages and develops collections to support research, teaching, and
    learning in the department of Economics and is liaison to multiple
    programs in the Weinberg College of Arts and Sciences, Medill School
    of Journalism, McCormick School of Engineering, and the School of
    Communication focused on entrepreneurship, leadership, marketing,
    and management, including active engagement with The Garage,
    Northwestern's hub for student entrepreneurship andinnovation.
-   Partners with Business and Management Librarian to support students
    and faculty in the Kellogg School of Management on the Evanston and
    Chicago campuses, and similarly collaborates with library liaisons
    for engineering, communication studies, and other areas to support
    interdisciplinary programs that have elements of management
    andentrepreneurship.
-   Collaborates with the Libraries' data services team to support use
    of business data for research andteaching.
-   Works within the Instruction and Curriculum Support work group to
    design information literacy student learning goals and instructional
    materials based on the ACRL Framework for Information Literacy in
    HigherEducation.
-   Creates learning materials, such as online tutorials, research
    guides, and other course-specific learning objects for the
    University's learning managementsystem.
-   Contributes to the Libraries' campus engagement and
    programmingendeavors.
-   Serves as an active member of the Libraries' staff, including
    participation on committees and other bodies asappropriate.
-   Engages in appropriate professional development, continuing
    education, professionalservice, and researchactivities.
  
**Minimum Qualifications**

-   Master's degree in library and information science from an
    ALA-accredited program, or its equivalent.
-   Academic background or practical experience in economics,
    engineering, business, or related field.
-   Knowledge of current and emerging trends in business and
    entrepreneurship research and education.
-   Awareness of approaches and tools for analyzing and representing
    businessdata.
-   Experienceordemonstratedinterestininformationliteracyandlibraryinstruction,including
    familiarity with the ACRL Framework for Information Literacy in
    Higher Education, active learning techniques, instructional
    technology, and assessment for learning at alllevels.

**Minimum Competencies**

-   Ability to work in a collaborative team-basedenvironment
-   Excellent oral and written communicationskills
-   Adaptable, ability to adjust to changingenvironment
-   Customerfocused
-   Takes ownership of work, completes what is needed without being
    asked, followsthrough
-   Plans ahead, manages time well, is resource conscious, finds better
    ways to achieve personal and work groupgoals
