+++
title = "GIS and Data Librarian" 
employer =  "Brown University"
employerurl = "https://www.brown.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://brown.wd5.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/staff-careers-brown/job/University-Library/GIS-and-Data-Librarian_REQ167041"
postdate = "2020-07-30"
archivedate = "2021-02-05"
draft = "false"
+++
**Job Description:**

The GIS and Data Librarian at the Brown University Library is a highly collaborative leader who works with library staff, campus stakeholders, faculty, and students to develop a geospatial information and data service program that aligns with Brown University’s strategic priorities for academic and research excellence. Working with academic centers and departments, including Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4), the Institute at Brown for Environment and Society (IBES), the Population Studies Training Center, and others, the GIS and Data Librarian coordinates the development of library programming and infrastructure for use of data and GIS in research and teaching with complementary programs across campus to increase positive impact.

An accomplished expert in geospatial information services and social science data support more generally, the GIS and Data Librarian will provide individual and group consultation in identifying and accessing data sets, data analysis, cleaning, normalization, and management using a variety of open-source and proprietary tools and methods. Specific areas of focus are on geographic, demographic, and social science data, methods, and tools, including the U.S. Census, ArcGIS, QGIS, nVIVO, and others. In support of the geospatial information and data service program, the GIS and Data librarian may hire and train graduate student assistants, coordinate and teach instruction sessions related to research data services, and provide consultations for researchers and students in collaboration with other subject librarians.

In addition to providing individual and group consultations, the GIS and Data Librarian will contribute to the development of faculty-led digital projects involving geospatial, demographic, and other forms of data, working closely with the Faculty Director and the staff of the Center for Digital Scholarship.

As a member of the Academic Engagement Department, they will collaborate with other librarians to select data sets for purchase, and oversee collection development, data management, and access in the relevant domain. They will also be responsible for working with colleagues in the local, regional, and national research data landscape to ensure Brown University is delivering on our mission to support academic and research excellence.

**Job qualifications**

**Education and Experience**

- Required education: ALA-accredited master’s or other advanced degree [including ABD] in a discipline working with GIS, geography, or spatial analysis.
- Successful experience in staff supervision and training in an academic and/or library environment. 
- Experience or demonstrated potential supporting researchers with data services, including data discovery, visualization, and data storage preferred.
- Demonstrated experience with using GIS applications including the Esri suite of ArcGIS applications.
- Ability to represent the Library to University and external audiences.

**Job Competencies**

- Knowledge of the current landscape for open data, statistical and geospatial analysis, GIS, data visualization and research data management, and will have hands-on experience or a willingness to learn software and techniques in support of this work.
- Excellence in the following skills: verbal and written communication, interpersonal, planning, organizational, and analytical. 
- Demonstrated commitment to diversity and understanding of the contributions a diverse workforce brings to the workplace. 

All offers of employment are contingent upon a criminal background check and education verification satisfied to Brown.

Recruiting Start Date: 2020-07-21-07:00

Job Posting Title: GIS and Data Librarian

Department: University Library

Grade: Grade 11

Worker Type: Employee

Worker Sub-Type: Regular

Time Type: Full time

Scheduled Weekly Hours: 37.5

**Submission Guidelines:**

Please note that in order to be considered an applicant for any staff position at Brown University you must submit an application form for each position for which you believe you are qualified. Applications are not kept on file for future positions. Please include a cover letter and resume with each position application.

**Still Have Questions?**

If you have any questions you may contact employment@brown.edu.
    
**EEO Statement:**

Brown University is an E-Verify Employer.

Brown University is committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive academic global community; as an EEO/AA employer, Brown considers applicants for employment without regard to, and does not discriminate on the basis of, gender, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, race, protected veteran status, disability, or any other legally protected status.