+++
title = "Digital Preservation Librarian"
employer = "Washington University in St. Louis"
employerurl = "https://wustl.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://jobs.wustl.edu/"
postdate = "2020-03-04"
archivedate = "2020-05-13"
draft = "false"
+++
### POSITION SUMMARY

Under the direction of the Head of Preservation and Digitization, the Digital Preservation Librarian develops, documents, implements and oversees preservation workflows, procedures and policies for Washington University Libraries' digital collections and assets, both digitized and born-digital. The incumbent will collaborate with stakeholders across the Libraries and campus to develop programmatic and sustainable policies and workflows to address digital curation and long-term digital preservation needs for the Libraries and related campus assets.

### PRIMARY DUTIES & RESPONSIBILITIES

1. Develops, documents, implements and oversees preservation workflows, procedures and policies for Washington University Libraries' digital assets, both digitized and born-digital. These assets include, but are not limited to, images, audio-visual recordings, data sets, web archives, e-mail archives, social media archives and 3D models. These policies include, but are not limited to, metadata standards, repository preservation standards, and storage standards.

3. Participates in the administration and development of the University Libraries' technology infrastructure for digital preservation, in collaboration with Library Technology Services, WUIT, and related campus units for technology services.

2. Collaborates with Special Collections, Data Services, Digital Library and other key Libraries' staff to ensure creation and maintenance of University Libraries digital assets according to current preservation practices.

4. Provides consultation services to Washington University faculty, students and staff to promote education on preserving digital material and retrieving information from legacy media formats.

5. Participates as part of the professional community to stay up to date on new programs, standards, and developments within the rapidly-growing digital library field. This includes pursuing continuing education and certification to remain current with the community of practice for digital preservation, as well as being a leader within the broader fields of preservation and digital libraries. Shares these developments with the University Libraries' staff through periodic alerts, summaries, reports and revisions to policies and procedures. Participates in library-wide and university-wide activities, committees, special projects and programs, as assigned.

6. Performs other duties as assigned.

More information at: https://jobs.wustl.edu | Job number: 46958
