+++
title = "Assistant Archivist" 
employer = "University of Michigan, ICPSR"
employerurl = "https://icpsr.umich.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.umich.edu/job_detail/189465/assistant_archivist"
postdate = "2020-09-18"
archivedate = "2021-02-04"
draft = "false"
+++
Working Title: ASSISTANT ARCHIVIST
: Job Title: ASST ARCHIVIST
: Work Location: Ann Arbor Campus, Ann Arbor, MI
: Full-Time, Regular
: FLSA Status: Exempt
: Organizational Group: Inst Soc Research
: Department: ICPSR - Metadata and Preservat
: Posting Begin/End Date: 9/17/2020 – 10/01/2020
: Career Interest: Primary

**How to Apply**

A cover letter is required for consideration for this position and should be attached as the first page of your resume. The cover letter should address your specific interest in the position and outline your skills and related experience.

**Job Summary**

The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR) is part of the Institute for Social Research (ISR) at the University of Michigan. The consortium maintains the world’s largest archive of social scientific data with 15,000+ studies relating to education, aging, criminal justice, substance abuse, terrorism, and more. A global leader in data science, ICPSR also supports continuing education in research design, statistics, and data analysis. ICPSR employs 15 research faculty, 95 professional staff, and has an annual operating revenue of more than $15 million.

ICPSR’s Metadata and Preservation unit is seeking an Assistant Archivist to enhance metadata and assist with digital preservation planning. Are you passionate about accurate, precise, and comprehensive metadata to improve resource discovery?  Do you enjoy helping a repository plan policies and procedures for reliable, long-term access to digital resources?  If so, please apply!

**Responsibilities***

Metadata Management and Coordination (80%)

- Review, clean, and augment metadata created by users and staff for quality and adherence to metadata standards.
- Advise on metadata standards and assist in developing and implementing procedures and workflows.
- Maintain strong working relationships and communication with staff across ICPSR, especially project managers and data curators.
- Learn about and participate in DDI implementation at ICPSR, as well as external development.

Preservation Planning (20%)

- Help create, maintain, and present digital preservation policies, procedures, workflows, and strategies.

**Required Qualifications***

- ALA-accredited MSI, MLIS, or equivalent advanced degree.
- Experience with descriptive cataloging of social science data collections.
- Experience creating, editing, and transforming metadata.
- Practical experience using MARC, Dublin Core, Schema.org, DDI, and other metadata standards and schema.
- Experience curating social science data collections.
- Excellent organizational and project management skills.
- Excellent verbal, written, and interpersonal communication skills in the English language.
- Strong ability to work well in a team-based environment.

**Desired Qualifications***

- Two to three years of experience working with metadata in a digital repository setting.
- Skills in one or more scripting languages for data manipulation (e.g., Python, XSLT).
- Understanding of linked data principles, including RDF.
 
**Additional Information**

In addition to a career filled with purpose and opportunity, U-M offers a comprehensive benefits package to help you stay well, protect yourself and your family, and plan for a secure future. Benefits include generous time off; retirement plan with two-for-one matching contributions after the first year; many choices for comprehensive health insurance; life insurance; long-term disability coverage; and flexible spending accounts for healthcare and dependent care expenses. Learn more about U-M benefits.

The Institute for Social Research at the University of Michigan seeks to recruit and retain a diverse workforce as a reflection of our commitment to serve the diverse people of Michigan, to maintain the excellence of the university, and to ground our research in varied disciplines, perspectives, and ways of knowing and learning.

U-M EEO/AA Statement

The University of Michigan is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.