+++
title = "Psychology and Social & Decision Sciences Liaison Librarian / Information Scientist" 
employer =  "Carnegie Mellon University"
employerurl = "https://www.cmu.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://apply.interfolio.com/73803"
postdate = "2020-02-18"
archivedate = "2021-02-06"
draft = "false"
+++
**Psychology and Social & Decision Sciences Liaison Librarian / Information Scientist**

Join us in building a 21st-century library at the heart of research and teaching. Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) stands among the world’s most renowned educational institutions with faculty leading the way in their fields with state of the art, interdisciplinary research and an emphasis on training the next generation of innovators. The University Libraries are highlighted in the university’s strategic plan. We seek creative and engaged professionals to work with the Libraries’ dedicated team toward meeting the needs of our university.

We invite applications from collaborative, people-centered, technically skilled applicants who thrive in a creative, agile work environment to serve as Liaison Librarian / Information Scientist for Psychology and Social & Decision Sciences. The Liaison Librarian / Information Scientist for Psychology and Social & Decision Sciences will primarily serve as the liaison to the Department of Psychology and the Department of Social and Decision Sciences in the Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences (depending on the background and skill of the candidate, the departments served by this position will be flexible), and will provide research, reference, and instructional support for faculty, staff, and students in the departments. The Liaison Librarian / Information Scientist is expected to build relationships with faculty, staff and students in their liaison departments and will have opportunities to collaborate on research, teaching, and publication. The Liaison Librarian / Information Scientist will be encouraged to explore and test ways to support multiple campus constituents involved in these areas and will develop services and resources that support Open Science. The Liaison Librarian / Information Scientist will communicate and collaborate with other liaison librarians as needed on various interdisciplinary tasks, projects, and initiatives.

The Department of Psychology in the Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences is a vibrant community whose research continues the Department’s 100-year tradition of studying the deeper mechanisms and processes underlying human behavior and its social and neural bases. The Department of Social and Decision Sciences in the Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences is a unique interdisciplinary department that offers programs that combine studies in the social sciences with the practical skills needed to excel in key decision-making roles in the public and private sectors.

Candidates should have a strong background and/or interest in these subjects, an understanding of the research lifecycle within these fields, and should be highly motivated to develop close collaborative teaching and research relationships with faculty, staff and students in both departments and across disciplines. They should also be comfortable with new and emerging technologies and media applications for learning, teaching, and scholarly pursuits.

We are especially interested in candidates who can contribute to the diversity and excellence of the academic community through their research, teaching and/or service, and have a demonstrated record in working with international and underrepresented minority students.

Under the leadership of the Associate Dean for Research and Academic Services, you will:

- Develop and manage relationships between the University Libraries and the departments in your portfolio
- Acquire and maintain expertise in information trends in the Psychology and Social & Decision Sciences
- Develop and assess innovative services and resources for the research, teaching and learning communities within your portfolio and cross-disciplinary programs across the University, including services related to digital scholarship, publishing, and scholarly communications
- Collaborate with a team of library personnel to develop and deliver information literacy curriculum for undergraduate and graduate students
- Help to build and maintain the libraries’ print and electronic resource collections in response to the changing research, teaching and learning needs of faculty and students
- Work with library faculty and staff to provide innovative and responsive reference consultation services to the broader CMU community
- Work with vendors to identify, develop, advertise and train on new platforms or services

In addition to providing responsive library services to faculty, students and staff, you will be encouraged and supported in developing or continuing your own program of research and scholarship related to information science and librarianship or to aspects of your disciplinary expertise. You will also participate in governance and projects through various committees and working groups as assigned or elected.

As a Liaison Librarian/Information Scientist, you will be a member of the library faculty. Initial appointment rank and salary are commensurate with experience.

To be considered for reappointment or promotion, you will be expected to demonstrate excellence in librarianship and in research or scholarship. For more information, please visit: https://www.cmu.edu/policies/faculty/appointments-librarian-and-archivist.html