+++
title = "Librarian for the Social Sciences and Data"
employer = "NYU Abu Dhabi"
employerurl = "https://nyuad.nyu.edu/en/"
moreinfourl = "https://apply.interfolio.com/74736"
postdate = "2020-03-26"
archivedate = "2020-05-13"
draft = "false"
+++
The NYU Abu Dhabi Library invites applications for a Librarian for Social Sciences and Data to work in a highly collaborative, innovative, and forward-looking setting. Reporting to the Head of the Center for Digital Scholarship at NYUAD, the position plays a key role in the educational mission of NYU Abu Dhabi by providing dynamic and enthusiastic service to students and faculty with a special focus on research in the social sciences. The role involves reference, teaching, collection development, and research assistance to our gifted and diverse students and faculty. Program development and participation in tiered information literacy programs are expectations.

The librarian will serve as a resource for students and faculty working with data sources and software common to social sciences research, and as a partner with the other liaison librarians and related University departments. The incumbent will develop creative strategies to understand the information needs of assigned departments and programs, build partnerships with faculty, and actively engage in outreach to sustain strong, consistent, and effective communications between the Library, the assigned departments, and affiliated programs. This position provides leadership in developing programmatic support of qualitative data services, including facilitating access to data resources and providing research and instruction support to faculty and students in their use. He or she will develop and maintain print and electronic subject-related collections to support the teaching, learning, and research needs of students and faculty. Collaborative work with colleagues at NYU New York, NYU Shanghai, and across NYU’s global network is an important job expectation. Librarians at NYUAD engage in community and professional service and pursue an active scholarly agenda including publication and research.

### Qualifications

Initial appointment will be for 3 years and is renewable contingent on job performance and active professional engagement. Rank depends on professional background and experience.

**Required Qualifications:**

- ALA-accredited MLS or international equivalent graduate LIS degree
- Academic background in the social sciences
- Experience with quantitative analysis and its tools, particularly Stata and the R programming language
- Demonstrated analytical skills
- Excellent oral and written communication skills.
- Demonstrated aptitude and enthusiasm for instruction and outreach
- Demonstrated aptitude for teamwork, flexible accommodation of a changing environment, and history of collegiality

**Preferred Qualifications:**

- Advanced degree in the social sciences
- Demonstrated knowledge of or direct experience working with and managing research data
- Experience working in a research library
- Experience working in a culturally diverse environment
- Application Instructions

#### To apply for this position, please submit the following documents

- Cover Letter
- CV

Applications will begin to be reviewed as they are received. We anticipate that the successful candidate will be appointed for the academic year 2020-2021 and can relocate to Abu Dhabi in August 2020.

<!--For questions about this position, please email the search committee chair at beth.russell [ at ] nyu.edu.-->