+++
title = "Data Project Manager" 
employer = "University of Michigan, ICPSR"
employerurl = "https://www.umich.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.umich.edu/job_detail/188972/data_project_manager"
postdate = "2020-08-31"
archivedate = "2021-02-05"
draft = "false"
+++
Working Title: Data Project Manager
: Job Title: Research Area Specialist Inter
: Work Location: Ann Arbor Campus, Ann Arbor, MI
: Full-Time/Regular
: FLSA Status: Exempt
: Organizational Group: Inst Soc Research
: Department: ICPSR - Project Management and
: Posting Begin/End Date: 8/31/2020 – 9/18/2020
: Salary: $55,000.00 – $70,000.00
: Career Interest: Research

**How to Apply**

A cover letter is required for consideration for this position and should be attached as the first page of your resume. Your cover letter should address your specific interest in the position and outline skills and experience that directly relate to this position. (Applications without cover letters will not be considered.)

**Responsibilities***

The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research, the world's largest archive of social science data, is now accepting applications for up to two Data Project Managers to oversee the management of data acquisition, archiving, and related projects.

You will have primary managerial responsibility for data acquisition, user support and outreach, and reporting. This will include reaching out to potential data depositors, supporting data producers as they deposit data with us, prioritizing data curation work and monitoring its progress, supporting users as they work with our data, and facilitating data trainings to maximize data’s value to researchers.

In this role you may manage any of a variety of projects, including projects that focus on expanding access to data from several social science disciplines, disseminating education, and serving the restricted data needs of the social science community.  

Project Administration

You will provide administrative and managerial guidance of project activities. This includes ensuring that project deliverables are met on time and on-budget, and communicating with the funder on project activities.

Data Acquisitions and Management of Confidential Data 

You will review incoming data deposits and ensure curation work is carried out according to the project’s priorities. This includes assisting data producers in the successful deposit of their data and collecting and managing information about potential and existing data depositors. You will also implement and ensure adherence with our policies for handling confidential data. 

User Support and Outreach 

You will work with our Web team and IT unit to develop and test tools, systems, and websites. You'll also provide technical assistance to our data users and develop promotional materials, create learning guides, coordinate conference arrangements, and present at conferences and through webinars.

**Required Qualifications***

- Bachelor’s degree in social sciences, information science, or related field

- 4+ years (2-3 years for Associate level) experience related to the responsibilities of the position(managing research projects, including creating project plans, preparing progress reports, and monitoring spending; managing data; or working with social science data).

- Knowledge of current issues related to data management and archiving

- Experience working with social science data, concepts, analysis methods, and statistical applications (SAS, SPSS, etc.)

**Desired Qualifications***

- Master’s degree in social sciences, information science, or related field

- Familiarity with grant-based research administration processes, especially those related toFederal data sharing requirements

- Knowledge of confidentiality, disclosure, and related issues regarding the distribution of social science data

- Experience in a research setting including a data archive or academic library

- Experience working with developers to define system and tool requirements

**Underfill Statement**

This posting may be filled at the Intermediate or Associate level, depending on qualifications. Additionally, salary range at the associate level will be based on the qualifications of the candidate.

**Additional Information**

In addition to a career filled with purpose and opportunity, U-M offers a comprehensive benefits package to help you stay well, protect yourself and your family, and plan for a secure future. Benefits include generous time off; retirement plan with two-for-one matching contributions after the first year; many choices for comprehensive health insurance; life insurance; long-term disability coverage; and flexible spending accounts for healthcare and dependent care expenses. Learn more about U-M benefits.

The Institute for Social Research at the University of Michigan seeks to recruit and retain a diverse workforce as a reflection of our commitment to serve the diverse people of Michigan, to maintain the excellence of the university, and to ground our research in varied disciplines, perspectives, and ways of knowing and learning. 
U-M EEO/AA Statement

The University of Michigan is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.