+++
title = "Research and Scholarly Communications Librarian" 
employer =  "Western University"
employerurl = "https://www.uwo.ca"
moreinfourl = "https://www.uwo.ca/facultyrelations/careers/pdf/AD_Libraries_RSC-Librarian_20201.pdf"
postdate = "2020-06-26"
archivedate = "2021-02-05"
draft = "false"
+++
Western University,, Western Libraries

**Probationary or Continuing Appointment for a Research and Scholarly Communications Librarian**

**Role Description:**

Western Libraries seeks an individual with strong leadership skills and innovative ideas who is passionate about the opportunity to partner in the planning, implementation, and assessment of research and scholarly communication services. The Research and Scholarly Communications Librarian will collaborate to provide integrated, user-centred library services that engage faculty, students and researchers throughout the research cycle to achieve high quality outcomes. This appointment, which may be filled as a Probationary or Continuing Appointment depending on the experience of the successful candidate, is available beginning Summer/Fall 2020. The rank and salary will commensurate with experience.

Reporting to the Head, Research and Scholarly Communication within Western Libraries, this position is part of the Research and Scholarly Communication (RSC) team. The RSC team is committed to collaborating with researchers across campus throughout the research cycle, to advance the creation, management, dissemination, and preservation of scholarship. The team has expertise in the areas of copyright, author rights, open access advocacy and scholarly publishing, institutional repository services, data management practices, GIS, data services, and knowledge synthesis (e.g. systematic reviews).

The Research and Scholarly Communication Team fosters campus partnerships and actively collaborates to provide research services for the development of exemplary scholars and the creation of significant scholarship. The team also collaborates with Western Research to sustain an active partnership in research services and knowledge exchange activities. Western Libraries is currently exploring the development of a Digital Scholarship Centre in which the RSC Team and the candidate will play a crucial role.

**Main Responsibilities**

- Work closely with faculty and students to support their workflows and patterns of research, dissemination, and management and preservation of research, including data
- Develop strong working relationships with a diverse community of faculty, students, staff, and campus partners to support the research mission of Western
- Support the development of librarian and library staff knowledge and understanding of scholarly communication issues
- Facilitate compliance with funder open access mandates
- Maintain currency with tools, methodologies and best practices in scholarly communication
- Develop and deliver education and outreach regarding scholarly communication practices to students, staff, and faculty

**Required Qualifications:**

- Master's degree from a program accredited by the American Library Association (ALA), or equivalent degree, or a PhD degree in library and information science, or equivalent degree
- Knowledge of the research lifecycle and research processes with an understanding of the issues surrounding scholarly communication across a variety of disciplines
- Demonstrated ability to work strategically and collaboratively to build programs and initiatives
- Excellent written communication and strong presentation skills
- Demonstrated ability to learn new skills and new technologies
- Demonstrated experience leading projects and programs

**Preferred Experience or Interest:**

The field of scholarly communication is large and diverse, and we recognize that professionals have a variety of specializations. We are open to and excited about the possibilities that the successful candidate will bring to Western Libraries and the RSC Team. We are looking for someone who will support the team in our current areas of strength and take initiative and leadership in one or more of the following areas.

- Data Visualization
- Research Impact and Metrics
- Digital Scholarship
- Digital Humanities
- Open Educational Resources

**Environment**

Librarians at Western are Members of the Librarians and Archivists Bargaining Unit represented by The University of Western Ontario Faculty Association. The Librarians and Archivists Collective Agreement governs terms and conditions of employment. Librarians and Archivists have academic status and their responsibilities are a combination of professional practice, academic activity, and service (all as defined in the Collective Agreement). The 2020/21 annual salary minimum floor for each rank is as follows: General Librarian - $60,729; Assistant Librarian - $66,834; Associate Librarian - $77,380; Senior Librarian - $92,920. Western offers a comprehensive benefit package including but not limited to extended health, dental, vision and pension.

Western Libraries, one of Canada’s leading research libraries, is a member of the Ontario Council of University Libraries, the Canadian Association of Research Libraries, the Association of Research Libraries, the Center for Research Libraries, the Canadian Research Knowledge Network, and the Archives Association of Ontario. Recognized for the quality of its staff, the access and services provided, and its outstanding collections (eleven million items in print and digital formats), Western Libraries supports the University’s mission to create, disseminate, and apply knowledge for the benefit of society through excellence in teaching, research, and scholarship.

**Application Procedures**

Applicants are required to submit a covering letter, a curriculum vitae, and the names and contact information for three professional references, by July 24, 11:59 PM (EDT) to:
Office of the Vice-Provost & Chief Librarian.

Only applications received by email will be considered. Please submit your application package as a single electronic file (MS Word or pdf).
Please quote in the subject line reference #: RSC062020. Please ensure that the form available at: http://www.uwo.ca/facultyrelations/pdf/full-time-application-lib-archs.pdf
is completed and included in your application submission.

**Interview Procedure**

Please note that the University’s facilities are currently closed in response to Covid-19. As such the interviews and presentations may be conducted remotely using video-conferencing software. Candidates will be consulted on a case-by-case basis on the best process and format to use given their location and particular situation.
Positions are subject to budget approval. Applicants should have fluent written and oral communication skills in English. The University invites applications from all qualified individuals. Western is committed to employment equity and diversity in the workplace and welcomes applications from women, members of racialized groups/visible minorities, Indigenous persons, persons with disabilities, persons of any sexual orientation, and persons of any gender identity or gender expression.
In accordance with Canadian immigration requirements, priority will be given to Canadian citizens and permanent residents.
Accommodations are available for applicants with disabilities throughout the recruitment process. 