+++
title = "Data Services Librarian" 
employer = "Indiana University Bloomington"
employerurl = "https://www.indiana.edu/"
moreinfourl = "not available"
postdate = "2020-10-28"
archivedate = "2021-02-04"
draft = "false"
+++

DATA SERVICES LIBRARIAN
: ASSISTANT LIBRARIAN OR ASSOCIATE LIBRARIAN
: INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON LIBRARIES

The IUB Libraries seek an innovative, collaborative, and team-oriented Data Services Librarian to provide research, teaching, and learning support across a wide variety of academic and research programs.  The Data Services Librarian will develop, deliver, and assess library services, programs, infrastructure, and collections to support the use of data, data literacy, data management, and data curation and preservation.  This position supports students and faculty alike through instruction and consultation, providing support and education for the use of secondary data, assists researchers with data management plans, data sharing and preservation options, and facilitates the interpretation of data in various contexts.  

This position will develop and deliver programming in areas of data management, sharing, and preservation to assist faculty and students in managing the data lifecycle that results from research projects of all types. The successful candidate will work with colleagues to curate data and develop documentation to facilitate access, engage and collaborate across campus on research data support and training, and will contribute to the Libraries’ initiatives to adapt, design and develop tools and services for organizing, storing and sharing research data. This position will play an integral role in the ongoing development of IU Data CORE (Catalog and Open Repository Environment), our Hyrax/Samvera-based research data repository.  The librarian will collaborate with colleagues in the library to support individual researchers and scholars, as well as data science curricula and courses, and departmental or cross-institutional research teams.   The Data Services Librarian works closely with partners across campus to increase understanding of data resources, tools, skills, and ethical use.  Additionally, this position collaborates with librarian colleagues to evaluate and acquire data sets and data collections, ensures their discovery and long-term accessibility, and stewards library-licensed data sets and packages.  Reporting to the Head of the Scholarly Communication Department, this position will work to promote open and transparent research practices through active outreach and engagement with our students and faculty.

The Indiana University Bloomington Libraries supports a safe and inclusive environment for all members of our diverse communities. We are committed to building a diverse workforce and strongly encourage individuals from underrepresented groups to apply. 

**RESPONSIBILITIES**

- Develop innovative services and resources to support research and teaching in the areas of research data management, research tools and workflows, data ethics, sharing, and preservation, and open science.
- Develop and implement policies and strategies at the library and university levels for a sustainable approach to support public access to products of research.
- Deliver expert one-on-one consultations to faculty, students, and staff supporting research data needs and consult on strategies and tools across various aspects of the data lifecycle, especially data management planning, data cleaning and ethics, and repository services.
- Develop and provide outreach and instructional programs, workshops, and training materials to support data science courses and promote data literacy (e.g., data management planning, preservation, best practices and tools).
- Build and maintain excellent data collections, steward library-licensed data, and implement data use agreements.
- Provide support for data curation, packaging, and dissemination and assist in developing documentation to facilitate access.
- Provide input and guidance on research repository workflows and data policies and assist directly with data deposits and publishing in libraries’ data repositories.
- Serve as Product Owner for the IU Data CORE research data repository.
- Facilitate and contribute to further development of data repositories and support adjacent services (e.g., DataCite DOI minting, Scholarly Data Archive, Globus integration)
- Work with staff in University Information Technology Services Research Technologies and Library Technologies to coordinate support for research data lifecycles within IU storage and data repository environments
- Partner with students, faculty, and academic staff to support data-intensive courses, assignments, and research projects across the campus
- Translate and promote data and informatics tools, specialized databases, and ontologies
- Maintain awareness of trends within research data management, digital curation, data science, and related areas.
- Build and maintain relationships with colleagues across the IU campus libraries, partner with subject librarians to serve the research needs of specific disciplines, and provide training to librarians and library staff on data-intensive approaches to librarianship.
- Foster a diverse and inclusive environment and work effectively with a diverse faculty, staff, and student population.
- Communicate with and actively engage with faculty and students across campus to understand their needs, build collaborations, and promote library services.
- Establish and maintain engagement with units that complement the Libraries capacity to support IU interdisciplinary research and technology infrastructure (e.g., University Information Technology Services Research Technologies, Office of Research Administration, University Information Security Office, and Library Technologies).
- Promote the Libraries’ culture of diversity and inclusion, and support the values outlined in the Libraries’ Diversity Strategic Plan (https://libraries.indiana.edu/file/diversity-strategic-plan-20162017pdf).

**QUALIFICATIONS**

Required

- ALA-accredited graduate degree in library or information science or international equivalent; candidates with advanced degree in a relevant subject area and appropriate experience in academic setting will also be considered
- Experience with data management, data curation, and data repositories with a focus on research practices relating to secondary data, data set acquisition and stewardship, and the reuse, reproducibility, and retrieval for data sources
- Experience instructing and consulting with students or faculty on concepts of data literacy including discovery, ethical data use, management, and sharing
- Demonstrated understanding of the research processes used in a range of disciplines, with particular focus on the research lifecycle of data, and evidence of applied knowledge of data management and curation across these disciplines
- Experience working with open source digital repository software (e.g. Hyrax, DSpace)
- Experience working with large data sets and collections
- Excellent organizational, communication, and presentation skills
- Capacity to thrive in an ambiguous, innovative environment at a major research institution and pivot effectively to evolving needs and priorities
- Understand and promote the Libraries’ culture of diversity and inclusion, and support the values outlined in the Libraries Strategic Plan (https://libraries.indiana.edu/strategicplan), and the Libraries’ Diversity Strategic Plan (https://libraries.indiana.edu/file/diversity-strategic-plan-20162017pdf)
- Ability to meet the requirements of a tenure-track position at the IU Libraries (https://libraries.indiana.edu/file/promotion-and-tenure-criteria-iub-librarians-pdf)

Preferred

- Bachelor’s degree in information or data science, or related degree in the life, health, or physical sciences
- In-depth knowledge of current issues in scholarly communication and publishing, research funding, Open Science, and discourses on reproducible research
- Experience with data management and cleanup techniques and tools (e.g., OpenRefine, DMPTool, DMPOnline, Git/Github, Open Science Framework)
- Experience with project and/or product management and Agile methodologies
- Experience providing research services in an academic library setting

**SALARY AND BENEFITS**

Salary is competitive and commensurate with experience and education; benefits include a university healthcare plan, university-funded base retirement plan, a 100% university paid group life insurance plan, and a generous paid time off plan.  This tenure-track academic appointment includes eligibility for sabbatical leaves.  For a full list of benefit programs, please refer to the following resources:

- Website:  http://hr.iu.edu/benefits/neweeo/prof-index.html
- Video: http://www.indiana.edu/~uhrs/benefitsvideo/academic.html
- Brochure:  http://hr.iu.edu/pubs/books/IU-benefits_broch.pdf

**TO APPLY**

Applications received by Friday, November 13, 2020 will be given full consideration.   The position will remain open until filled. Interested candidates should review the application requirements and submit their application at https://indiana.peopleadmin.com. Expected start date:  April 1, 2021.

For more information about Indiana University Bloomington go to https://www.indiana.edu/. 

Indiana University is an equal employment and affirmative action employer and a provider of ADA services.  All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to age, ethnicity, color, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identify or expression, genetic information, marital status, national origin, disability status or protected veteran status.