+++
title = "Senior Researcher, Head of Secure Data Center" 
employer =  "GESIS – Leibniz Institute for the Social Sciences"
employerurl = "https://www.gesis.org"
moreinfourl = "https://www.hidden-professionals.de/HPv3.Jobs/gesis/job/14940/Senior-Researcher"
postdate = "2020-12-10"
archivedate = "2021-02-06"
draft = "false"
+++

Wissenschaftliche&ast;n Mitarbeiter&ast;in
: Start: 2/1/2021
: Career level: Expert
: Location: Cologne
: Department: DAS - Datenarchiv für Sozialwisenschaften
: Working time: Fulltime (39,5 Hours per week)
: Temp job: Temporary
: Application period: 1/18/2021

GESIS – Leibniz Institute for the Social Sciences is an internationally active research institute, funded by federal and state governments and member of the Leibniz Association. 

We are looking for the 01.02.2020 as Head of the Secure Data Center in the department Data Archive for Social Sciences in Cologne for a Wissenschaftliche&ast;n Mitarbeiter&ast;in.

(Salary group 14 TV-L, working time of 100%, limited to four years)

The Data Archive for Social Sciences offers access to social science research data, including data from national (e.g. ALLBUS, GLES) and international (e.g. ISSP, EVS) survey programmes. The position of the Head of the Secure Data Center is located in the area of secure data access and cooperates closely with the above-mentioned study collections. GESIS has set up the Secure Data Center (SDC) for the use of sensitive data. The SDC provides data access for researchers in safe rooms in Cologne and Mannheim. 

Future tasks of the SDC include

- the establishment of remote access to the data available in the SDC,
- the extension of the offer to digital behavioural data,
- the expansion of internal and external (national and international) network and
- the conception and implementation of usage models.

The work of the SDC is supported by an administration officer.

Your area of responsibility:

- Responsibility for secure data access at GESIS and coordination of the secure data provision of GESIS survey data
- Establishment of secure access to digital trace data (data from social media etc.) in cooperation with internal and external partners
- Advising scientific users on data requiring of protection
- Planning, development and expansion of remote access services
- Scientific research and raising of funds in the area of protected access to data

Your profile:

- Doctorate in a relevant field of social sciences, as well as internationally visible publications in relevant fields of research
- Sound knowledge of data protection and interest in data security
- Profound knowledge of methods of empirical social research, statistical analysis of survey data using common software (e.g. Stata, R or Python), as well as sound experience in handling sensitive data
- Excellent communication skills and (project) management experience
- Knowledge of German at native speaker level (C2) and fluent in written and spoken English (at least C1)

**Interested?**

Please apply via our Online-application portal until January 18, 2021. Our reference number is: DAS-79

GESIS offers an exciting work environment for interdisciplinary research at the interface between the social sciences and computer science. As an infrastructure institution, we promote social science research and cooperate with renowned international research institutes.

GESIS supports your career development. We offer a wide range of career opportunities in an attractive and rewarding work environment that allows you to carry out your tasks in a creative and autonomous manner. You will work in an international environment in the heart of Cologne and benefit from our flexible working conditions as well as our extensive internal and external networks. 

GESIS is an equal opportunity employer and adheres to disability regulations.

We are a family-friendly employer and have been certified by the audit Work&Family since 2010. 

The position is available on a full-time or part-time basis.


