+++
title = "Digital Project Archivist"
employer = "The Bancroft Library, University of California, Berkeley"
employerurl = "https://www.lib.berkeley.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://aprecruit.berkeley.edu/apply/JPF02505"
postdate = "2020-03-10"
archivedate = "2020-05-13"
draft = "false"
+++
Digital Project Archivist
: The Bancroft Library
: University of California, Berkeley
: Payroll Title: Assistant Librarian I
: Pay rate: $55,014 (full time rate)
: This is a two-year, 100% time, temporary appointment available starting May, 2020.
: Vacancy for 2 positions.

The University of California, Berkeley, is seeking two Digital Project Archivists to digitally process archival collections that have been identified as priorities for online access as part of grant funded projects. These are two temporary, two-year appointments at 100% time. The successful candidates will have experience in digital collection processing, demonstrated understanding of archival description and materials, familiarity with digital project management and online publication, familiarity with library encoding and content standards (EAD, MARC, RDA, DACS), and strong communications skills.

### The Environment

The UC Berkeley Library is an internationally renowned research and teaching facility at the nation's premier public university. A highly diverse and intellectually rich environment, Berkeley serves a campus community of 30,574 undergraduate students, 11,336 graduate students, and 1,522 faculty. The Library comprises 20 campus libraries, including the Doe/Moffitt Libraries, The Bancroft Library, the C.V. Starr East Asian Library, and numerous subject specialty libraries. With a collection of more than 11 million volumes and a collections budget of over $15 million, the Library offers extensive collections in all formats and robust services to connect users with the collections and build their research skills. Discover more about the Library through our website at http://www.lib.berkeley.edu

The Bancroft Library of the University of California, Berkeley, is one of the largest and most heavily used libraries of rare materials in the West. Its holdings include more than 600,000 volumes, 70 million manuscripts, 9 million photographs and other pictorial materials, 86,000 microforms, 4.3 million digital files, and 25,000 maps, as well as numerous other categories of unique material. The two largest collections are the Bancroft Collection of Western and Latin Americana and the Rare Books Collection. The archival and rare book materials of the Magnes Collection of Jewish Art and Life are also part of the Bancroft holdings. Bancroft is home to three research groups: the Oral History Center (formerly the Regional Oral History Office); the Mark Twain Papers; and the Center for the Tebtunis Papyri. The Bancroft Library is an active center of teaching and research. Supporting the programs of about 20 campus departments annually, it mounts a regular series of public exhibitions, roundtable lectures, and open houses. For additional information about The Bancroft Library and its collections. See: http://www.lib.berkeley.edu/libraries/bancroft-library

### Responsibilities

The Digital Project Archivist will be responsible for digitally processing identified archival special collections, linking the resulting digital collections to existing finding aid descriptions, ensuring the encoding of the finding aids and digital objects for online publication locally and at the Online Archive of California and Calisphere services. The Digital Project Archivist will report to the Assistant Director and work closely with the Archivist for Digital Collections, and will supervise student library employees as needed. The Digital Project Archivist will work with the Assistant Director to fulfill reporting requirements to the granting agency; will work in consultation with curators, technical services staff, Library IT and Imaging Services staff, vendors, and California Digital Library staff in the digital processing and online publication of the collections; and will work with the data scientist on the project to extract data from the digitized archival material to create research data sets. The Digital Project Archivist will also work with the Principal Cataloger and Head of Archival Processing to update collection records in library information systems.

UC Berkeley librarians are expected to participate in library-wide planning and governance, to work effectively in a shared decision-making environment and to be active professionally. Professional contributions beyond the primary responsibilities are required for advancement in the Librarian series. The successful candidate will show promise or evidence of such contributions.

### Qualifications

**Minimum Basic Qualification required at the time of application:**

- Bachelor's degree (or equivalent international degree)

**Additional Qualifications:**

- One or more years of digital processing experience

**Preferred**

- MLS/MLIS/MIS from an ALA-accredited institution, or equivalent degree
- Two or more years of digital project management and online publication experience.
- Familiarity with Encoded Archival Description (EAD), Machine Readable Cataloging (MARC), Resource Description and Access (RDA), Describing Archives: a Content Standard (DACS), and Metadata Object Description Schema (MODS).
- One or more years of experience using WebGenDB or similar digital content/asset management systems.
- One or more years of digital processing experience, including description, digitization, and authoring of EAD finding aids and digital objects in a special collections environment.
- Demonstrated understanding of archival description and materials.
- Excellent analytical, interpersonal, and communication skills.
- Willingness to work in a team environment.
- Proficiency with Microsoft Access and Excel.
- Ability to lift 40-pound boxes.

The Library at the University of California, Berkeley is committed to the support and encouragement of a multicultural environment and seeks candidates who can make positive and imaginative contributions in a context of ethnic and cultural diversity.

University of California librarians are academic appointees and are represented by the University Federation of Librarians, part of the American Federation of Teachers (UC-AFT). This position is in the bargaining unit.

Librarians are entitled to appropriate professional leave, two days per month of vacation leave, one day per month of sick leave, and all other benefits granted to non-faculty academic personnel. The University has an excellent retirement system and sponsors a variety of group health, dental, vision, and life insurance plans in addition to other benefits.

Deadline: This recruitment will remain open until filled.

The University of California is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age or protected veteran status.

For the complete University of California nondiscrimination and affirmative action policy see: http://policy.ucop.edu/doc/4000376/NondiscrimAffirmAct (link is external).

<!--
Send inquiries to:

Immaculate Adesida
Library Human Resources Department
110 Doe Library,
University of California,
Berkeley, CA 94720
Email: mailto:librec [ at ] library.berkeley.edu
Phone: 510-643-8470
-->
