+++
title = "Repository Services Manager"
employer = "Washington University in St. Louis"
employerurl = "https://wustl.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://jobs.wustl.edu/"
postdate = "2020-02-06"
archivedate = "2020-05-13"
draft = "false"
+++
Washington University in St. Louis is now accepting applications for the position of Repository Services Manager. 

### POSITION SUMMARY

Reporting to the Head of the Digital Library, the Repository Services Manager will develop, coordinate, deliver, monitor, assess, and advance the services, infrastructure, and operations for the University Libraries’ digital repository and management of digital assets generated by the Libraries and campus community partners. The incumbent will be responsible for creating a customer-first approach to developing technical infrastructure and requirements for the Libraries’ digital repository, delivering robust repository services, and maintaining related technical resources for supporting the University’s mission of preserving and disseminating Libraries’ digital collections and the diverse scholarly output produced by students, faculty, and research affiliates at Washington University.

### PRIMARY DUTIES & RESPONSIBILITIES

1. Manages the full spectrum of daily operations of the digital repositories at WU Libraries, including technical infrastructure, client services, and content management. The work of the incumbent will include directing metadata management and development for the repository, directing content strategies and policies for repository content, managing the ingest and curation of content, developing appropriate workflows and schema for ingesting and maintaining data and digital materials, and coordinating training, and supervising the work of Libraries staff on use and workflows of the digital repositories.
2. Collaborates with Library colleagues to develop technical infrastructure, workflows, and programmatic strategy across the WU Libraries for digital repository platforms, including digitized Special Collections, open access publishing, open educational resources, and management of other digital assets.
3. Develops and implements procedures, workflows, and other necessary documentation for the institutional repository, in consultation with colleagues within the WU Libraries.
4. Consults with faculty and researchers in relevant programs throughout the WU community to promote the retention and accessibility of research output, promotes the repository to the campus community, and solicits content from university stakeholders.
5. Professional Development and Service: Serves on Library committees and groups. Represents the Libraries on campus, nationally, and internationally in appropriate professional venues, and engages in professional activities outside of the University to stay up to date on developments in digital repository services and related professional areas.
6. Performs other duties as assigned and as needed.


The complete listing of position responsibilities, salary information, and qualifications are provided in the full job description, which is available at https://jobs.wustl.edu/ (job ID# 46847).