+++
title = "Data Curator" 
employer =  "Roper Center for Public Opinion Research"
employerurl = "https://ropercenter.cornell.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://cornell.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/CornellCareerPage/job/Ithaca-Main-Campus/Data-Curator_WDR-00023629-1"
postdate = "2020-08-14"
archivedate = "2021-02-05"
draft = "false"
+++
The Roper Center for Public Opinion Research is looking to expand their fun and innovative archiving team. This Data Curator position offers full Endowed Cornell benefits and a standard work week of 39 hours. As part of the archive data team (https://ropercenter.cornell.edu/staff/roper-staff), this person will work collaboratively to process incoming public opinion research data (survey results) from a major collection of political science experimental survey research, making the data available to our expanding individual, commercial and academic user base.

This member of the data curation team will focus their efforts primarily (but not exclusively) on the collection, organization, and publication of recent and historical Black American opinion data.

**Duties will include:**

- Review and accurately process an incoming collection of survey datasets, including conversion of dataset and documentation files to archival formats.
- Provide quality control and error-checking for datasets and related documentation processed by self and others, comparing final processed dataset and documentation to original materials
- Ensure confidentiality/anonymity by removing potentially sensitive/identifying variables
- Create accurate metadata information and descriptions based on careful reading of datasets and related documentation.
- Ensure standardized metadata formatting by adhering to convention by using data ingest software.
- Translate data from older and/or obsolete formats to more modern formats
- Work collaboratively to ensure question-level data entry is consistent and fully documented.

This is a 1-year, endowed benefit-eligible term position with the possibility of extension based on the availability of work and funding.

**REQUIRED QUALIFICATIONS:**

- Associates Degree with up to 2 years of experience in data entry or in an office environment or equivalent combination. Appreciation for detail and an understanding of the challenges to accuracy in repetitive work
- Ability to organize work, collect and analyze data, document processes and procedures, and maintain meticulous records
- Demonstrable written and oral communication skills
- Ability to work independently as well as part of a team; has a positive attitude
- Ability to use good judgment and willingness to seek direction when questions or issues arise
- Ability to understand and apply standardized procedures and protocols
- Introductory level experience with statistical analysis programs (SPSS or Stata preferred)
- Ability to work remotely

**PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS:**

- Prior experience with political science/social science/public opinion data and/or metadata standards preferred

Visa sponsorship not provided for this position.

UNIVERSITY JOB TITLE: Research Aide III, level C

Location: Primarily remote