+++
title = "Assistant Professor/Data Services Coordinator"
employer = "Mississippi State University Libraries"
employerurl = "https://www.msstate.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://explore.msujobs.msstate.edu/en-us/job/499665/assistant-professor"
postdate = "2020-03-10"
archivedate = "2020-05-13"
draft = "false"
+++
The Mississippi State University Libraries seeks a proactive and team-oriented individual with enthusiasm for data science to serve as the Assistant Professor/Data Services Coordinator. The successful candidate will actively collaborate with subject librarians to develop and promote data services and integrate data literacy into library instruction across disciplines. This is a full-time, tenure track position that reports to the Associate Dean of Library. 

A premier research university with a student body of over 20,000, Mississippi State University is located in historic Starkville Mississippi (https://www.starkville.org/visit/) with all the conveniences and amenities of a college town. For the fourth year in a row, Mississippi State University has earned recognition as a “Great College to Work For” from the Chronicle of Higher Education. 

### Essential Duties and Responsibilities

The ideal candidate for the tenure track, Assistant Professor position possesses strong research and analytical skills, as well as the desire to teach. The successful candidate will actively collaborate with subject librarians to promote and integrate data services and data literacy into library instruction across the disciplines. They will also engage in outreach to research centers and institutes as well as academic departments toward the development of course-specific data services support for undergraduate and graduate students. The Data Services coordinator will teach instruction sessions related to research data services and provide consultations for researchers and students in collaboration with subject librarians. Such support would involve both synchronous and asynchronous educational programs and workshops covering a variety of topics including analytical/visualization software packages such as R, SPSS, SAS, Stata and Tableau, as well as geographic information systems such as ArcGIS.
Additionally, the Data Services coordinator will work across the libraries to advance open data and deliver services that support those faculty engaged in data-intensive research projects. Internally, the Data Services coordinator’s skills in data analysis and visualization will be leveraged in support of those ongoing and special data-driven projects of the University Libraries administration. The candidate will work in a team environment and must have a willingness to engage in continual learning, development, and application of additional expertise through work-related experiences and professional development opportunities. Candidate must also possess the ability to deal with change, ambiguity, and complex problems that are typical of an academic setting. This position may also supervise staff and students. This position reports to the Associate Dean of Libraries.

### Minimum Qualifications

• Master’s degree in Library & Information Sciences from an ALA-accredited institution or advanced degree in a data-intensive discipline with at least one year's professional experience.
• Demonstrated knowledge of data management practices, data curation practices, and preservation principles and practices
• Experience or demonstrated potential supporting researchers with data services, including data discovery, visualization, and data storage
• Experience with data management and/or visualization applications (e.g., R, SAS, SPSS, Tableau, and ArcGIS)
• Demonstration of ability, interest, and willingness to assume additional and/or new responsibilities, along with the ability to set and model high performance standards.
• Ability to work independently and as a team member to solve problems, using sound judgment in decision-making according to an established timeframe.
• Excellent verbal and written communication skills
• Excellent interpersonal skills evidenced by the ability to work cooperatively and maintain effective working relationships with colleagues, faculty, students, and staff.
• Demonstrated ability to support and enhance a diverse learning and working environment.
• Demonstrated potential for meeting the requirements for promotion and tenure.
• Commitment to conduct research and scholarship consistent with a tenure track faculty appointment; commitment to engage in continuing professional development.

ABDs or degree pending considered (all but DISS): Yes

### Preferred Qualifications:

• Proven experience delivering services in the academic library environment.
• Advanced degree in applied statistics, or a PhD in the natural sciences or social sciences.
• Experience with scripting languages and data mining

### Instructions for Applying:

All applicants must apply online at www.msujobs.msstate.edu and attach a cover letter, curriculum vitae, and the complete contact information for at least three professional references who can address the suitability of the candidate.

### Equal Employment Opportunity Statement:

MSU is an equal opportunity employer, and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, ethnicity, sex, religion, national origin, disability, age, sexual orientation, genetic information, pregnancy, gender identity, status as a U.S. veteran, and/or any other status protected by applicable law. We always welcome nominations and applications from women, members of any minority group, and others who share our passion for building a diverse community that reflects the diversity in our student population.

### Salary Grade: UC

Please see Staff Compensation Structure or Skilled Crafts and Service Maintenance Compensation Schedule for salary ranges.  For salary grade UC, these positions are "Unclassified" and salary ranges are determined by the hiring department.
