+++
title = "Data Management Consultant"
employer = "Virginia Tech"
employerurl = "https://lib.vt.edu/"
moreinfourl = "http://careers.pageuppeople.com/968/cw/en-us/job/512847/data-mgmt-consultant"
postdate = "2020-02-17"
archivedate = "2020-05-15"
draft = "false"
+++
Data Mgmt Consultant
: Apply now Job no: 512847
: Work type: Hourly Wage/Part-Time
: Senior management: Dean of Libraries
: Department: Library
: Location: Blacksburg Area
: Categories: Library

### Job Description

Under the direction of the Data Management and Curation Services Coordinator, the Data Management Consultant will provide consultative support to Virginia Tech researchers including evaluation of data planning needs, assessing options for sharing data, tailoring recommendations to specific granting agency or publisher requirements, and editing data management plans. They will be responsible for triaging and routing other research data management inquires and support requests to appropriate personnel within Data Services, managing short and long-term communications and relationships with researchers, PIs, and students, and developing guidance on data management best practices.

### Required Qualifications
- Bachelor's degree
- Demonstrated experience in service provision/working with clients
- Coursework or experience using data in an academic research setting
- Demonstrated experience in working in a collaborative team-based environment

### Preferred Qualifications

- Masters Degree 
- Demonstrated experience conducting scholarly or scientific research using data, either on a personal project or on a funded project. Must be able to talk about depth of involvement in the project, details about methods/code used, and analysis metrics.
- Experience in research data curation and data publication
- Experience in data management planning and writing/reviewing of data management plans for funding proposals
- Experience in assessment related to program performance
- Experience in program planning and development

### Salary Information

$16.50 dependent on qualifications and expertise

### Review Date

2/25/2020

### Additional Information

Average of 30 hours per week; between the hours or M-F 8am-5pm. These are include summer and school break hours. This position has the possibility for remote work.

The successful Candidate will be required to have a criminal conviction check.

The members of the University Libraries at Virginia Tech strive individually and collectively to create, sustain, and share inclusive ways of knowing in conscientious community with each other and all the people we serve in every space we shape. In keeping with our Aspirational Identity and the Virginia Tech Principles of Community, the University Libraries commit to build and maintain enduring climates of mutual care, respect, and responsibility.

### About Virginia Tech

Virginia Tech is a public land-grant university, committed to teaching and learning, research, and outreach to the Commonwealth of Virginia, the nation, and the world. Building on its motto of Ut Prosim (that I may serve), Virginia Tech is dedicated to InclusiveVT—serving in the spirit of community, diversity, and excellence. We seek candidates who adopt and practice the Principles of Community, which are fundamental to our on-going efforts to increase access and inclusion, and to create a community that nurtures learning and growth for all of its members. Virginia Tech actively seeks a broad spectrum of candidates to join our community in preparing leaders for the world.

Virginia Tech does not discriminate against employees, students, or applicants on the basis of age, color, disability, sex (including pregnancy), gender, gender identity, gender expression, genetic information, national origin, political affiliation, race, religion, sexual orientation, or veteran status, or otherwise discriminate against employees or applicants who inquire about, discuss, or disclose their compensation or the compensation of other employees or applicants, or on any other basis protected by law.

If you are an individual with a disability and desire accommodation please contact the hiring department.

Advertised: February 10, 2020

Applications close: Open until filled
