+++
title = "Research Associate" 
employer =  "Ocean Networks Canada, University of Victoria"
employerurl = "https://www.oceannetworks.ca"
moreinfourl = "https://www.oceannetworks.ca/sites/default/files/WD%20ITO%20Research%20Associate%20.pdf"
postdate = "2020-05-04"
archivedate = "2021-02-06"
draft = "false"
+++
Job Title: Research Associate, World Data Systems
: Salary:  $60,000/year
: Hours: 35 hours per week; Monday-Friday 8:30am-4:30pm/remotely
: Ocean Networks Canada, University of Victoria

Ocean Networks Canada (ONC) is a world-leading organization supporting ocean discovery  and  technological  innovation.  ONC  is  a  not-for-profit  society  that operates   and   manages   innovative cabled observatories on behalf of the University of Victoria that supply continuous power and Internet connectivity to various scientific instruments located in coastal, deep-ocean, and Arctic environments. ONC is also a member of the World Data System (WDS), a global consortium of data distribution centers under the auspices of the International Science Council. ONC is the physical host, along with the Canadian Astronomy Data Center and the University of Waterloo’s Polar Data Catalogue, of the WDS International Technology Office (ITO). The ITO supports the contribution of WDS members  to  the  global  research  data  infrastructure  and  coordinates  the development and integration of components of global research data infrastructure with other operational entities that are invested in research data management.  The  ITO  seeks  to  empower  and  enable  the  WDS  community  to accomplish complex tasks when dealing with data volumes of increasing size and complexity. 

The ITO is seeking a full time staff member that will engage with WDS members and  other  partners  as  the  data  management  community  works  to  make  high quality data findable, accessible, interoperable and reusable (FAIR). Specifically, the staff member will be responsible for promoting and facilitating the implementation  of  Schema.org  mark-up  in  research  metadata.  This  work  will both contribute  to,  and  extend  the  outputs  from  the  Research  Data  Alliance Working Group on Research Metadata Schemas. The need for this work is rooted in the increased interest by Data managers for using web structures for a data syndication.  This  data  pathwayrelies  on  using  semantic  web  technologies  to enrich metadata with controlled vocabularies, and then creating landing pages for  those  metadata  that  are  subsequently  indexed  by  search  engines,  in particular indexing by Google Dataset Search.

The researcherwill examine questions such as: Should data managers abandon the  traditional  harvesting  or  continue  these  services  and  augment  them  with semantic  technologies?  When is it  appropriate  for  the  RDM community  to  use semantic technologies with respect to sensitive data? Schema.org is lightweight and lacks any meaningful detail about the datasets it describes. Is this pathway useful for the domain rich communities and scientists who will derive meaning and ultimately policy from the raw data, or should it be seen as an activity that supports non-scientists? If so, should it be a priority for data managers? Should managers adopt Schema.org, in conjunction with other vocabularies, and if so how?

This position requires a master’s degree in Information Science, Library Science, Digital Humanities,  Computer Science, Physics  & Astronomy, Engineering, Mathematics  &  Statistics  or  Earth  and  Ocean  Sciences  or  related  field,  plus minimum 3 years of related experience. An equivalent combination of education and experience may be considered.

The  candidate  should  have  demonstrated  experience  in  one  or  more  of  the following areas:

- Research data management, web content management systems, developing metadata content, data repository management, data publishing
- web services for scientific data discovery and delivery, data curation and data interoperability 
- Demonstrated understanding of metadata schemas, controlled vocabularies, ontologies, and/or data syndication
- Public speaking, specifically giving webinars andtutorials and developing content and resources on web technologies or data infrastructure and management processes

In addition, this position requires:

- Excellent analytical, critical thinking and problem solving skills
- Superior communication skills, both written and verbal; good interpersonal skills, especially when dealing with international clients; the ability to listen and ask relevant questions about what data managers are experiencing
- Ability to build and maintain productive working relationshipswith all stakeholders
- Ability to work independently and collaboratively in a team environment
- Proven track record achieving project goals on time and produce deliverables of a high quality-
- Demonstrated organizational skills•Experience with APIs, R and/or Python while not required, would be an asset

*This is a 12-month Term appointment and the successful candidate will be eligible to work remotely. The candidate must either be a Canadian or be in possession of a valid Canadian work permit.*

Application Deadline:  August 5, 2020

Location: Queenswood Campus, 2474 Arbutus Road, Victoria BC V8N 1V8/remotely

To Apply: Send a CV and cover letter to:ncadmin@uvic.ca



