+++
title = "Research Librarian (STEM)" 
employer =  "University of California, Santa Cruz"
employerurl = "https://www.ucsc.edu/)"
moreinfourl = "https://recruit.ucsc.edu/JPF00819"
postdate = "2020-05-06"
archivedate = "2021-02-06"
draft = "false"
+++
University Library: **Research Librarian (STEM)** (Open until filled. Apply by 6/1/2020)

**Position description**

The University Library at the University of California, Santa Cruz (UCSC) invites applications for the position of Research Librarian (STEM). Under the direction of the Head of Research Support Services, the Research Librarian (STEM) will support the Library’s strategic priorities related to access and discovery, research and scholarship, and student success in the areas of science, technology, engineering, and math.

The Library has established support of STEM research through initiatives and partnerships housed in the Science & Engineering Library including the Video Game Lab, the Digital Scholarship Innovation Studio, and the STEM Hub. For this position, we seek a user-focused, forward-thinking, and entrepreneurial individual with strong communication and learning skills to lead the Library in defining its role and further developing capacity in support of STEM research, teaching, and learning. We welcome candidates who are seeking to launch a career in science librarianship and/or to further their professional expertise in the area of open science.

The Research Librarian (STEM) will serve as the Library’s divisional liaison to the Jack Baskin School of Engineering and, as such: lead the Library in developing a clear understanding of the research, curricular, and scholarly communication needs in the School; set a strategy for Library support of engineering-related teaching and learning; and spearhead efforts to communicate and engage with the School on behalf of the Library. As a member of the Library’s Research Support Services Department, the incumbent will contribute to departmental services and projects and collaborate closely with the liaison to the Physical and Biological Sciences Division. The incumbent will be expected to participate on relevant Library project teams, system-wide committees, and professional organizations.

Applicants with any of the following qualifications or professional experience are encouraged to apply: experience providing librarian support to STEM researchers, especially undergraduates, graduate students, and early career researchers; ability to respond to research consultation and teaching support requests in STEM disciplines; knowledge of STEM scholarly communication trends and practices including open science, open data, and science communication; experience developing and assessing library services to support or enhance research, teaching, and/or scholarship; undergraduate or graduate degree or equivalent training/work experience in science, technology, engineering, or mathematics; and/or interest or experience in research data management, data-intensive research methods, data analysis tools and programs, and/or data carpentries.

UCSC strives to embrace diversity in all its forms, and to be an inclusive community that fosters an open, enlightened, and productive environment. The campus is especially interested in candidates who can contribute to the diversity and excellence of the academic community through their assigned duties.

The successful candidate will be a member of the Librarians Association of the University of California (LAUC). Research, publication, and/or service to the University and profession are expected for continuing advancement. More information can be found at the Library Association of the University of California.

**ACADEMIC TITLE**

Assistant or Associate Librarian

**SALARY**

$55,014 – $84,260, commensurate with qualifications and experience

**BASIC QUALIFICATIONS**

- An ALA-accredited MLS or MLIS degree (or equivalent foreign degree) OR a Master’s degree (or equivalent foreign degree) in any field with at least two years of experience providing information, research, teaching, and/or scholarly communication support in a library or other academic setting at the time of application. It is expected the degree requirement will be completed by June 30, 2020.
- Knowledge of science, technology, engineering, and/or math information resources as demonstrated by professional experience or coursework.
- Public speaking experience as evidenced in candidate’s curriculum vitae by a list of presentations, workshops, and/or talks conducted in libraries, professional conferences, and/or coursework.
- Experience managing/leading a project, group project, or program.

**POSITION AVAILABLE**

As soon as possible after initial review of the applications. Degree requirement must be completed by June 30, 2020 for employment beginning on July 1, 2020 and beyond.

**DURATION OF POSITION**

This position is a member of the Professional Librarians Unit (LX) and is represented by the American Federation of Teachers (AFT). The initial appointment will be a full-time appointment. Non-temporary appointments to the Librarian Series at UCSC are offered as potential career or career status as appropriate (see Article 4 D. Terms of Service of the UC-AFT labor contract). In accordance with policy, the selected candidate will undergo the Librarian Peer Review process where their performance will be reviewed and assessed. The Librarian Peer Review outcomes will determine the candidate’s suitability to receive career status and to move through the ranks.

**APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS**

Applications are accepted via the UCSC Academic Recruit online system. All documents and materials must be submitted as PDFs.

APPLY AT https://recruit.ucsc.edu/apply/JPF00819
Please refer to Position # JPF00819-20T in all correspondence.

**Documents/Materials**

- Letter of application that briefly summarizes your qualifications and interest in the position, including how you meet position’s advertised basic qualifications (required)
- Curriculum vitae (required)
- Statement that addresses past or potential contributions to diversity, equity, and inclusion (required) See UCSC guidelines for statements at https://apo.ucsc.edu/diversity.html

**Reference Requirement**
Applicants must provide the names and contact information of their references (a minimum of three [3] are required and a maximum of five [5] will be accepted). The hiring unit will request confidential letters&ast; from the references of those applicants who are under serious consideration. Additionally, the committee may elect to contact the applicant’s references to conduct follow-up questions. Please note that your references, or dossier service, will submit their confidential letters directly to the UC Recruit System.

&ast;All letters will be treated as confidential per University of California policy and California state law. For any reference letter provided via a third party (i.e., dossier service, career center), direct the author to UCSC’s confidentiality statement at http://apo.ucsc.edu/confstm.htm.

**RECRUITMENT PERIOD**

Full consideration will be given to applications completed by June 1, 2020. Applications received after this date will be considered only if the position has not been filled.

The hiring unit will not sponsor employment-eligible immigration statuses for this position.

The University of California is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, or protected veteran status. UC Santa Cruz is committed to excellence through diversity and strives to establish a climate that welcomes, celebrates, and promotes respect for the contributions of all students and employees. Inquiries regarding the University’s equal employment opportunity policies may be directed to the Office for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at the University of California, Santa Cruz, CA 95064 or by phone at (831) 459-2686.

Under Federal law, the University of California may employ only individuals who are legally able to work in the United States as established by providing documents as specified in the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. Certain UCSC positions funded by federal contracts or sub-contracts require the selected candidate to pass an E-Verify check (see https://www.uscis.gov/e-verify). More information is available at the APO website (see https://apo.ucsc.edu/policy/capm/104.000%20.html) or call (831) 459-4300.

UCSC is a smoke & tobacco-free campus.

Our institution is committed to addressing the spousal and partner employment needs of our candidates and employees. As part of this commitment, our institution is a member of the Northern California Higher Education Recruitment Consortium (NorCal HERC). Visit the NorCal HERC website at https://www.hercjobs.org/regions/higher-ed-careers-northern-california/ to search for open positions within a commutable distance of our institution

VISIT THE APO WEB SITE AT http://apo.ucsc.edu

**Application Requirements**

Document requirements

- Cover Letter - Letter of application that briefly summarizes your qualifications and interest in the position, including how you meet position’s advertised basic qualifications
- Curriculum Vitae - Your most recently updated C.V.
- Statement of Contributions to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion - Statement addressing past and/or potential contributions to diversity, equity, and inclusion. See guidelines at: https://apo.ucsc.edu/diversity.html

Reference requirements

- 3-5 required (contact information only)

Job location: Santa Cruz, California
