+++
title = "Data, Science & Engineering Diversity Resident Librarian" 
employer = "University of Madison"
employerurl = "https://www.wisc.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://www.library.wisc.edu/news/2020/08/13/were-hiring-diversity-resident-librarian/"
postdate = "2020-08-17"
archivedate = "2021-02-05"
draft = "false"
+++
New position at UW-Madison Libraries

**Data, Science & Engineering Diversity Resident Librarian**

UW-Madison Libraries is now seeking candidates for its Diversity Resident Librarian Program, which was established in 2013. This program provides an opportunity for entry-level librarians from diverse backgrounds to begin their professional careers and develop skills and experience in academic librarianship. As members of the ACRL Diversity Alliance, we are committed to “increasing the hiring pipeline of individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups.”

This is a three-year placement designed to encourage and promote professional growth and development of recent graduates. It provides a broad-based awareness of principles and practices in an area of academic library specialization. The applicant does not need to have prior experience but should show an interest in the specialization area and a desire to learn the skills necessary to be successful on the job.

The UW-Madison Libraries will support professional development and service activities in the library, on campus, and in the wider academic library community, including conference attendance and opportunities to develop a presentation or publication based on the Resident’s UW-Madison activities.

The Data, Science & Engineering Diversity Resident Librarian at UW-Madison Libraries will actively engage the science and engineering research community, with an emphasis on the ongoing delivery and development of services for research data, data sciences and scholarly communication, in a supported and dynamic environment.


The person in this position will work closely with a team of science and engineering librarians, as well as staff across the UW-Madison Libraries.  Mentorship and collaboration with colleagues, including staff from the Research Data Services (RDS) team, the Data Science Hub, the Director of Scholarly Communication, and Libraries’ Teaching & Learning Program will provide a robust structure for professional growth and contributions. The Libraries have a strong self-governance model, which resident staff are encouraged to participate in if interested.

With ongoing professional development and mentorship provided, the Resident Librarian will:

- Develop relationships with the UW-Madison STEM community to advance and support research.
- Collaborate in the delivery and expansion of services to advance research workflows, research data management, data science, knowledge sharing, and research impact.
- Participate in the UW-Madison Libraries’ extensive Teaching & Learning Program.
- Plan and complete special projects in alignment with the Resident Librarian’s professional goals around STEM librarianship.

The Libraries at the University of Wisconsin-Madison are dedicated to the practices of social justice, diversity, equality, and respect among our staff, students, collections, and services. We strive to overcome historical and divisive biases in our society and embrace diverse points of view as assets to the fabric of our community. All positions will be called on to contribute to building this environment.

Research Services (55%)

- Participates as an active member of the Libraries’ Research Data Management Team and Scholarly Communication Team to advance scientific research through library services.  This includes collaborating with researchers, and developing educational initiatives on research workflows, research data management, knowledge sharing, and research impact.
- Consults with researchers to answer their questions and contribute to their understanding of information discovery, use, and management.

Engagement Services & Outreach (15%)

- Cultivates an understanding of the research, teaching, and learning needs of students, faculty, and staff in STEM disciplines.
- Participates as an active member of the Libraries’ Bioscience Researcher Engagement Team.
- Builds partnerships with STEM divisions, departments, centers, and programs; communicates with faculty, students, and staff to increase visibility of library expertise and services.

Teaching & Learning (10%)

- Contributes to the Libraries’ extensive in-person, blended, and online Teaching & Learning Program.

Special Project (10%)

- A percentage of time is earmarked for 1-2 strategic projects to be determined by the candidate in consultation with the supervisor. The project(s) will support strategic directions for the Libraries and will have an emphasis on research and/or data services.

Professional Development & Service (10%)

- Participates in continuing education around science and engineering librarianship, and in professional association activities.
- Serves on UW-Madison Libraries and campus committees to further the mission of the Libraries.
- Encouraged to participate in UW-Madison governance.
- Prepare for next steps of career, including cultivating a portfolio and building a professional network.

**Qualifications**

Required:

- Recent (less than three years of professional experience) or upcoming MA/MS in Library/Information Studies

Preferred:

- Ability to work independently
- Ability to work collaboratively in a team environment
- Demonstrated interest or experience related to this position

Starting Salary: $53,000 with an excellent benefits package.

**How to Apply**

To apply for the position, please send a cover letter and resume to library-hr@library.wisc.edu.

The cover letter should speak to:

- Required qualifications
- Interest in science and engineering librarianship and data services
- Reasons for applying to a diversity residency program

A criminal background check is required.  The deadline for applications is September 8, 2020. The position may start as early as November 2, 2020.