+++
title = "Team Lead"
employer = "FORS"
employerurl = "https://forscenter.ch/"
moreinfourl = "https://forscenter.ch/about-fors/staff/open-positions/"
postdate = "2020-05-13"
archivedate = "2022-07-01"
draft = "false"
+++
Starting date: August 1st, 2020 or negotiable
: Contract: Permanent
: Workplace: Géopolis on the campus of the University of Lausanne
: Salary: According to the University of Lausanne salary scheme.

**Job description**

The mission of the new team is to establish technical tools and services to facilitate research data management at large and to connect FORS tools and services to other similar initiatives in Switzerland and abroad. As head of group, you will be in charge of all activities of the group. You will be responsible for moving forward two of our key innovation projects www.swissubase.ch and www.linkhub.ch, as well as future initiatives and projects. This will be supported by a skilled and motivated team as well as through close collaboration with various internal and external project partners and the FORS management. More specifically, your tasks will include:

- leading the team and key projects of the group;
- developing and implementing together with the FORS management the vision for FORS’ contribution to the future Swiss research data infrastructure;
- communicating and coordinating with internal and external partners in Switzerland and abroad and establishing successful collaborations;
- managing the development and the operation of technical platforms for research, data management, and data sharing, including associated services; and
- identifying needs of different stakeholders and translate them into new services.

**The ideal candidate**

- You have a Master’s degree or a PhD in a field that gave you profound knowledge of data production and data management.
- You have significant project management experience (including project acquisition and financial management) with complex networked projects.
- You have experience in leading a team as well as in change management.
- You are familiar with key issues around open data, digitalization and data infrastructures. You have experience with data infrastructure, data services and data-oriented science. You understand the conceptual and technical challenges in collecting, processing and storing data.
- You have a clear understanding of research processes and practices and the needs of researchers in general. You have a solid understanding of the Swiss research landscape and its key actors. Ideally you can bring in an existing network.
- You are fluent in German and English and are able to use French as a working language. You have good writing skills in English and German, and you are able to structure and edit reports and concept papers at a high level.
- You are dynamic, proactive, open minded, and flexible, with strong interpersonal skills, and enjoy working in a complex environment. You can set priorities and clearly structure processes in a way to reach objectives in time.
- You are able to communicate key issues and results to senior management and partners in a clear and comprehensive way, you are able to think strategically, and you have a sense of diplomacy.

**Work environment**

We offer you a position in a well-established and dynamic environment. You will have the opportunity to plan and develop projects and new services. More information on FORS under www.forscenter.ch or for the projects www.swissubase.ch and www.linkhub.ch.

Application deadline 1.06.2020

We expect your full application (CV, diplomas and motivation letter), ideally in a single pdf. Please submit your application at: https://www.unil.ch/carrieres/emplois -> postes ouverts.