+++
title = "Public Interest Data Literacy ('PIDLit') Fellow" 
employer = "Georgia State University"
employerurl = "https://www.gsu.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://library.gsu.edu/files/2020/11/PIDLitFellow-AD-21-105-11.2020.pdf"
postdate = "2020-11-11"
archivedate = "2021-02-04"
draft = "false"
+++
Announcing a one-year fellowship (Jan-Dec 2021), with support from the Public Interest Technology University Network (PIT-UN) convened by New America, the Ford Foundation, and the Hewlett Foundation, for a doctoral or master’s degree recipient with interest in data literacy for the public good and building a more diverse pipeline of students pursuing careers in data science.

The Public Interest Data Literacy (PIDLit) initiative, led by the Georgia State University Library, together with multiple campus partners, will expand programs promoting data literacy and career preparedness with a particular focus on reaching first-year students and underrepresented groups. 

The Georgia State University Library provides support and training on a host of data analysis tools and methods and opportunities for students to network with the broader Atlanta community around real-world application of data science. Georgia State’s College to Career initiative encourages curricular enhancements that help students become aware of career competencies, connect those competencies to the work they do in the major, and demonstrate their proficiency of transferable skills. Georgia State’s Digital Learners to Leaders (DLL)initiative organizes student-led teams that create digital solutions to real-world challenges, growing students’ digital and problem-solving skills and increasing their career marketability. By conjoining these campus initiatives, we will expand data literacy outreach to first-year students, fostering a career pipeline that is stronger and more diverse in terms of race, ethnicity, ability, gender, and socioeconomic status.

The PIDLit Fellow, working closely with the PIDLit initiative co-directors and campus collaborators, will take the lead on developing a curriculum for first-year students at Georgia State’s main campus and two-year Perimeter College around data literacy and promoting data careers for the public good. GRAs and undergraduate Peer Leaders will assist with program development, outreach, and instruction. The Fellow will coordinate outreach and marketing efforts, including the hosting of webinars with other universities in order to gain insights and share experiences in reaching undergraduates. This unique fellowship opportunity is bolstered by a strong partnership of colleagues from multiple programs and departments at Georgia State as well as data literacy specialists from Clemson University, North Carolina State University, the University of Cincinnati, and other partners.

**QUALIFICATIONS**

Required

- An earned doctorate (ABD considered)or master’s degree, preferably in a social sciences discipline
- Understanding of and/or experience with data analysis tools and methods used in multiple disciplines (e.g., quantitative and statistical software; mapping and data visualization tools; strategies for finding, evaluating, and using data)
- Commitment to undergraduate teaching and learning of data literacy skills as a direct pathway to career readiness
- Commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion, and public interest/social justice efforts
- Ability to work collaboratively with multiple stakeholders
- Excellent communication, presentation, and interpersonal skills
- Must be legally permitted to work in the United States throughout the duration of the fellowship 

Preferred

- Teaching experience at the college or high school level- Instructional design or curriculum development experience

**Salary/Rank**

$60,000 for one year, with full university benefits and opportunities for professional development. This is a one-year visiting faculty position within the University Library at the rank of Librarian Instructor.

**Environment**

Due to Covid-19, the Fellow may work remotely(telework), work from our downtown Atlanta campus, or a combination of the two. An innovative urban public research university, Georgia State University is a national leader in graduating students from widely diverse backgrounds. Georgia State readies students for professional pursuits, educates future leaders, and prepares citizens for lifelong learning. Enrolling one of the most diverse student bodies in the nation at its downtown research campus, at its vibrant branch campuses, and online, the university provides educational opportunities for more than 54,000 students at the graduate, baccalaureate, associate, and certificate levels. The university is committed to becoming a national leader in diversity, equity, and inclusion in our society. For additional information about Georgia State University, visit http://gsu.edu.
