+++
title = "Entrepreneurship Librarian Liaison / Information Scientist" 
employer =  "Carnegie Mellon University"
employerurl = "https://www.cmu.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://apply.interfolio.com/73796"
postdate = "2020-02-18"
archivedate = "2021-02-06"
draft = "false"
+++
**Entrepreneurship Librarian Liaison / Information Scientist**

Join us in building a 21st-century library at the heart of research and teaching. Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) stands among the world’s most renowned educational institutions with  faculty leading the way in their fields with state of the art, interdisciplinary research and an emphasis on training the next generation of innovators. The University Libraries are highlighted in the university’s strategic plan. We seek creative and engaged professionals to work with the libraries’ dedicated team toward meeting the needs of our university.

We invite applications from collaborative, people-centered, technically skilled applicants who thrive in a creative, agile work environment to serve as Librarian Liaison / Information Scientist for Entrepreneurship. The Entrepreneurship Librarian (EL) will primarily serve as the liaison to the Swartz Center for Entrepreneurship that is housed in the Tepper School of Business and will provide research, reference, and instructional support for faculty, staff, and students of the Center. Additionally, the EL will focus on building relationships with faculty, staff, and students involved with innovation and entrepreneurship efforts across the university, which includes the CMU Center for Technology Transfer and Enterprise Creation (CTTEC) and the Integrated Innovation Institute (III). The EL will be encouraged to explore and test ways to support multiple campus constituents involved in these areas and will develop services and resources that support their endeavors to transform research and ideas into entrepreneurial ventures. The EL will be encouraged to explore the information landscape that supports innovation and entrepreneurship and will develop the libraries’ collection in this area. The EL will communicate and collaborate with the Business & Economics Librarian and other liaison librarians as needed on various interdisciplinary tasks, projects, and initiatives.

CMU’s Swartz Center for Entrepreneurship is the main center on campus that works with all CMU faculty, students, staff, and alumni on bringing research innovations and promising ideas to the global marketplace. CTTEC is responsible for facilitating and accelerating the movement of CMU research and technology out of the university and into the marketplace. III unites the disciplines of engineering, design, and business to build impactful solutions that create value for real people.

Candidates should have a strong background and/or interest in these subjects, an understanding of the research lifecycle within these fields, and should be highly motivated to develop close collaborative teaching and research relationships with faculty, staff, and students.

We are especially interested in candidates who can contribute to the diversity and excellence of the academic community through their research, teaching and/or service, and have a demonstrated record in working with international and underrepresented minority students.

Under the leadership of the Associate Dean for Research and Academic Services, you will:

- Develop working partnerships between the University Libraries and the departments/centers/institutes in your portfolio
- Acquire and maintain expertise in information trends in these fields
- Develop and assess innovative services and resources for the research, teaching and learning communities within your portfolio and cross-disciplinary programs across the University, including services related to digital scholarship, publishing, and scholarly communications
- Collaborate with a team of library faculty to develop and deliver information literacy curriculum for undergraduate and graduate students
- Help to build and maintain the libraries’ print and electronic resource collections in response to the changing research, teaching and learning needs of faculty and students
- Work with library faculty and staff to provide innovative and responsive reference consultation services to the broader CMU community
- Work with vendors to identify, develop, advertise and train on new platforms or services

In addition to providing responsive library services to faculty, students and staff, you will be encouraged and supported in developing or continuing your own program of research and scholarship related to information science and librarianship or to aspects of your disciplinary expertise. You will also participate in governance and projects through various committees and working groups as assigned or elected.

As a Librarian/IS, you will be a member of the library faculty. Initial appointment rank and salary are commensurate with experience.

To be considered for reappointment or promotion, you will be expected to demonstrate excellence in librarianship and in research or scholarship. For more information, please visit: https://www.cmu.edu/policies/faculty/appointments-librarian-and-archivist.html
