+++
title = "Data Visualization and Analytics Librarian" 
employer = "York University"
employerurl = "https://www.yorku.ca/"
moreinfourl = "http://webapps.yorku.ca/academichiringviewer/viewposition.jsp?positionnumber=2080"
postdate = "2020-10-13"
archivedate = "2021-02-04"
draft = "false"
+++

Data Visualization and Analytics Librarian
: Position Rank: Full Time Professorial Stream - Assistant Librarian
: Discipline/Field: Data Visualization and Analytics Librarian
: Home Faculty: Libraries
: Home Department/Area/Division: Open Scholarship
: Affiliation/Union: YUFA
: Position Start Date: February 1, 2021
 
York University Libraries (YUL) seeks a dynamic and innovative individual with strong leadership potential for the position of Data Visualization and Analytics Librarian. This is a continuing appointment position with a focus on academic library data services, data analytics and data visualization.

York University champions new ways of thinking that drive teaching and research excellence. Through cross-disciplinary programming, innovative course design, diverse experiential learning and a supportive community environment, our students receive the education they need to create big ideas that make an impact on the world. Located in Toronto, York is the third largest university in Canada, with a strong community of 53,000 students, 7,000 faculty and administrative staff, and more than 300,000 alumni. York U's fully bilingual Glendon Campus is home to Southern Ontario's Centre of Excellence for French Language and Bilingual Postsecondary Education.

The Open Scholarship Department at the Libraries supports research intensification across the broader campus by promoting, communicating and leveraging its expertise in scholarly communications, open access and open science. Multi-faceted and active engagement with faculty, students and community members on emerging forms of scholarship, data discovery, data management, data preservation and dissemination, and scholar visibility is central to this work.

Reporting to the Director, Open Scholarship, the Data Visualization and Analytics Librarian leads in developing policies and processes that underpin a robust library data services program and is an important member in a larger functional team that engages in targeted education to promote the values and opportunities of openness. As a member of the Library Data Services Working Group and a key liaison for the Digital Scholarship Centre, the incumbent will teach classes and instructional workshops, will provide expert data consultation services to the community, and will work to promote data literacy and data-intensive research methodologies both within the Libraries and across the institution. Collaborating closely with the Content Development and Analysis Department, the Data Visualization and Analytics Librarian will also collaborate with colleagues across divisions and departments to support key library priorities including evidence-based collection analysis at York University.

The incumbent will keep abreast of emerging areas of interest and innovation on campus and in the field, and they will identify evolving digital tools and resources that advance scholarly investigation while building on traditional research methodologies. The successful applicant will proactively engage in ongoing self-directed learning and professional development to bring new technologies and methodologies into York University's teaching and research environment. The incumbent will also represent the Libraries on local, regional and/or international data service organizations and initiatives, and they will advance the profession through research, publication and participation in professional organizations.

York University Libraries pursues excellence in teaching by advancing the discovery, preservation, creation and dissemination of knowledge through leadership, creativity and collaboration. All librarians and archivists advance this mission and as such will be assigned teaching responsibilities. Other duties and disciplinary responsibilities may be assigned in light of institutional priorities or the incumbent's disciplinary knowledge and research interests.

Qualifications Required:

 - A Master of Library and Information Studies (MLIS) from an ALA accredited program, or equivalent degree;
 - Demonstrated:
	- leadership capacity and evidence of building effective working relationships with institutional and external colleagues and community stakeholders;
	- teaching and presentation experience, including in online contexts;
	- aptitude for adapting to new responsibilities and environments, independent learning and engagement with technology/software, including excellent technical troubleshooting ability;
	- ability to provide research and consultation services to researchers with varying levels of technical expertise;
 - Experience with:
	- advancing new programmatic areas and outreach programs and engaging stakeholders in these developments;
	- implementing projects using project management techniques;
	- managing multiple projects with competing deadlines;
	- developing and managing data collections for campus communities;
	- data cleaning methods and tools such as OpenRefine or Excel;
	- at least one proprietary or open-source data, statistical and visualization tool. Examples include SAS, SPSS, D3.js, Mapbox, Tableau, Gephi, WikiData Query Service, Python Pandas/Plotly, and/or R;
 - Knowledge of:
	- data-intensive quantitative and qualitative research methodologies, research tools and approaches (e.g. computational data analysis, machine learning) across different disciplines;
	- Canadian and international statistical resources;
	- the research data repository landscape;
	- research data management principles;
 - Evidence or promise of research contributions in the form of publications or productions, professional development and/or active involvement in professional or scholarly organizations;
 - Excellent interpersonal, communication and presentation skills;
 - Superior written and spoken communication in English;

Desirable Qualifications:

 - Some fluency in spoken and written French;
 - Some knowledge of geospatial data and/or financial data.

This is a continuing appointment at the Assistant Librarian level starting from 1 February 2021. York offers a competitive salary commensurate with qualifications and an exceptional benefits package. All York University positions are subject to budgetary approval.

Librarians and Archivists at York University have academic status and are members of the York University Faculty Association bargaining unit ( http://www.yufa.ca/).

York University has a policy on Accommodation in Employment for Persons with Disabilities and is committed to working towards a barrier-free workplace and to expanding the accessibility of the workplace to persons with disabilities. Candidates who require accommodation during the selection process are invited to contact Dany Savard at dsavard@yorku.ca.

York University is an Affirmative Action (AA) employer and strongly values diversity, including gender and sexual diversity, within its community. The AA Program, which applies to women, members of visible minorities (racialized groups), Aboriginal (Indigenous) people and persons with disabilities, can be found at http://acadjobs.info.yorku.ca/ or by calling the AA line at 416.736.5713. Applicants wishing to self-identify as part of York University’s Affirmative Action Program can do so by downloading, completing and submitting the form found at: http://acadjobs.info.yorku.ca/affirmative-action/self-identification-form/. All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens, Permanent Residents and Indigenous peoples in Canada will be given priority. No application will be considered without a completed mandatory Work Status Declaration form which can be found at http://acadjobs.info.yorku.ca/affirmative-action/work-authorization-form.

Consideration will also be given to those who have followed non-traditional career paths or had career interruptions.

The deadline for receipt of completed applications has been extended to December 1, 2020.
