+++
title = "Map Librarian" 
employer =  "Western University"
employerurl = "https://www.uwo.ca"
moreinfourl = "https://www.uwo.ca/facultyrelations/careers/pdf/AD_Libraries_Map-Librarian_20201.pdf"
postdate = "2020-06-26"
archivedate = "2021-02-05"
draft = "false"
+++
Western University,, Western Libraries

**Continuing/Probationary Appointment Archives and Special Collections – Map Librarian**

Western Libraries invites applications from qualified individuals to fill one continuing/probationary appointment as a Map Librarian. Reporting to the Head, Archives and Special Collections (ASC) and as a member of the team, the Map Librarian works collaboratively to unlock the potential of Western Libraries’ cartographic collections through digital humanities, digitization initiatives, and other transformational technologies. The Librarian will also build, maintain, and facilitate discovery of and access to Western Libraries’ extensive modern and historical collections of maps, atlases, and aerial photographs, as well as geospatial collections. The primary focus of this position will be on the cartographic holdings of the Serge A. Sauer Map Collection and the Archives and Research Collections Centre.

The Librarian contributes to and collaborates on team functions, and works collaboratively with other ASC team members on priority activities identified in each planning year. The Librarian supports and actively engages with the other four core Western Libraries functions: Content Management, Discovery and Access; Research and Scholarly Communication; Teaching and Learning; and User Experience and Student Engagement. In particular, the Librarian will work closely with the GIS Technical Specialist on the Research and Scholarly Communication Team, especially with respect to the geospatial collections.

**Responsibilities**

- Develop cartographic and other geographic collections, including geospatial data and acquire materials in areas of historic strength, emerging growth, and/or demonstrated research and teaching potential
- Oversee the care, maintenance, and security of maps and cartographic holdings, including coordinating in-house preservation activities and conservation work undertaken by external service providers
- Design, deliver, and assess instruction to integrate cartographic and other primary resources into the curriculum in order to achieve identified learning outcomes, in collaboration with the Teaching and Learning team
- Work collaboratively with the GIS Technical Specialist on projects of common interest in the area of digital cartographic resources
- Provide the expertise required to support access to and use of cartographic materials by graduate students, faculty members, visiting researchers and other scholars
- Contribute to projects related to overall ASC team goals in the areas of outreach, instruction, collection management, preservation, and access and discovery
- Cultivate relationships with current and potential donors as well as vendors to identify and acquire appropriate new series or individual titles
- Initiate digitization, digital scholarship projects for selected maps and other cartographic holdings, including geospatial collections in consultation with the Digitization and Digital Preservation Librarian on ASC and in collaboration with the Research and Scholarly Communication team
- Promote awareness and use of cartographic and other special collections holdings by various means, including social media, and work with colleagues to highlight particular holdings to support outreach, fundraising, and development activities
- Supervise and coordinate the work of staff and students who are assigned map/cartographic responsibilities
- Represent Western Libraries at campus events and professional meetings and conferences, including local, provincial and national bodies with cartographic interest

**Qualifications and Experience**

- An ALA accredited MLIS or equivalent, with an academic background in geography or a closely related discipline such as earth sciences, geology, or GIS
- Demonstrated experience working with cartographic and GIS resources
- Knowledge of digitization and digital preservation of cartographic collections is preferred
- Knowledge of metadata and cartographic description is preferred
- Working knowledge of common GIS software tools and geospatial files
- Demonstrated knowledge of information literacy concepts
- Demonstrated experience leading projects and programs
- Strong analytical, organizational, problem solving, interpersonal, and communication skills
- Demonstrated initiative, flexibility, and ability to work creatively and effectively both independently and as a team member

**Environment**

Western Libraries is committed to excellence: anticipating information and service needs related to the University's goals for research and scholarship, teaching and learning, and service to our university community and key partners. The University’s strategic plan emphasizes research excellence and internationalization as key priorities. Engage. Empower. Excel.: Western Libraries Strategic Plan 2015-2020 aligns with the University’s plan and includes as key outcomes the enhancement of the Libraries physical and virtual infrastructure, as well as enhancing and expanding access to collections.

Western Libraries, one of Canada’s leading research libraries, is a member of the Ontario Council of University Libraries (OCUL), the Canadian Association of Research Libraries (CARL), the Association of Research Libraries (ARL), the Center for Research Libraries (CRL), the Canadian Research Knowledge Network (CRKN), and a proud partner in the OCUL Collaborative Futures Project. Recognized for the quality of its staff, the access and services provided, and its outstanding print and digital collections, Western Libraries supports the University’s mission to create, disseminate, and apply knowledge for the benefit of society through excellence in teaching, research, and scholarship.
Librarians at Western are Members of the Librarians and Archivists Bargaining Unit represented by The University of Western Ontario Faculty Association. Terms and conditions of employment, including salary and benefits, are governed by the Librarians and Archivists Collective Agreement. Rank and salary will be commensurate with qualifications and experience. The 2020/21 annual salary minimum floor for each rank is as follows: General Librarian - $60,729; Assistant Librarian - $66,834; Associate Librarian - $77,380; Senior Librarian - $92,920. Western offers a comprehensive benefit package including but not limited to extended health, dental, vision and pension.

**Application Procedure**

Applicants are required to submit a cover letter, a curriculum vitae, and the names and contact information for three professional references, by Friday, July 24, 2020, 11:59 PM (EDT) to Office of the Vice-Provost & Chief Librarian.

Only applications received by email will be considered. Please submit your application package as a single electronic file (MS Word or pdf). Please quote in the subject line reference #: MAPLIB2020.

Please ensure that the form available at http://www.uwo.ca/facultyrelations/pdf/full-time-application-lib-archs.pdf is completed and included in your application submission.

**Interview Procedure**

Please note that the University’s facilities are currently closed in response to COVID-19. As such the interviews and presentations may be conducted remotely using video-conferencing software. Candidates will be consulted on a case-by-case basis on the best process and format to use given their location and particular situation.
Positions are subject to budget approval. Applicants should have fluent written and oral communication skills in English. The University invites applications from all qualified individuals. Western is committed to employment equity and diversity in the workplace and welcomes applications from women, members of racialized groups/visible minorities, Indigenous persons, persons with disabilities, persons of any sexual orientation, and persons of any gender identity or gender expression.