+++
title = "Research Data Services Coordinator"
employer = "University of Texas Libraries"
employerurl = "https://www.utexas.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://utaustin.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/UTstaff/job/UT-MAIN-CAMPUS/Research-Data-Services-Coordinator_R_00015943"
postdate = "2021-10-11"
archivedate = "2021-12-28"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Texas Libraries is hiring a Research Data Services Coordinator. This position is responsible for developing programming and resources for the research data services program at UT Libraries. The person in this role will collaborate with Libraries staff, Office of Sponsored Projects, Office of the Vice President for Research, Texas Advanced Computing Center (TACC), Information Technology Services and other campus partners to ensure the UT community is making the best use of the services available to them. Reports to the Head of Scholarly Communications.

**General Notes**

The University of Texas Libraries welcomes and respects all individuals and communities by valuing and consciously maintaining awareness of diverse perspectives and experiences. We believe inclusivity is critical to fostering excellence in all of our endeavors, and we promote diversity in our collections and services, as well as in our recruiting, hiring, and retention practices. 

**Responsibilities**

*Develop and deliver research data services training.* Develop and deliver research data services training for all disciplines on campus, both in-person and online, including workshops, drop-in classes, and one-on-one sessions. Create and manage online resources, including self-help guides and templates within DMPTool.org, to guide research data stewardship throughout the research life cycle. Coordinate with others in the library, especially subject liaisons, and across campus to effectively communicate services available to UT Austin researchers. Keep the university community informed about policies and activities related to research data services. Contribute to informational materials and programming about open data and open science in order to encourage greater participation in research from under-represented groups.

*Provide Data Management Planning Support and Consultation.* Provide consultative services to UT Austin researchers including evaluating data management plans, assessing and advising on data sharing platforms, providing information about specific funder/publisher requirements, and fostering the use of FAIR data principles to promote reproducibility of research. Work with UT Austin staff and administrators to support continued development and visibility of robust data management services available to researchers.

*Manage UT Austin’s Data Repository.* Serve as the main point of contact and perform outreach to UT Austin users of the Texas Data Repository (TDR). Serve as the UT Austin liaison on the Texas Digital Library (TDL) TDR Steering Committee. Support researchers’ use of TDR through training, consultation, and guidance on metadata creation and deposit workflows. Support researchers preparing data for deposit, such as identifying appropriate repositories (like TDR) and guiding researchers to prepare or package data effectively for reuse. Investigate the feasibility of offering curation services for data deposited in TDR. Work with partners at TDL, TACC, and the Dataverse Project Development Community to further enhance the functionality of TDR. Work with partners in the library and around campus to grow TDR services. Maintain knowledge on a range of data repositories including their submission, IP, and use policies, and provide guidance on repository selection.

*Maintain Currency with Data Standards, Procedures, and Practices.* Stay informed of data standards, best practices for data management, funder requirements, data sharing procedures, metadata standards, etc. to continuously build expertise and improve services on campus.

*Contribute to Professional and Organizational Initiatives.* Engage in ongoing professional development and scholarship through attending and/or presenting at conferences and workshops. Maintain awareness and engagement with national and international trends in data management and scholarly communication. 

Participate in library, university, and external committees and working groups. 

Other related functions as assigned. 

**Required Qualifications**

Master’s degree and three years of experience in program administration or coordination. A minimum of two years of experience in data science, academic research, and/or managing research data in libraries. Experience developing and effectively delivering training or workshop presentations. Experience with one or more components of the research data life cycle: creation, processing, analyzing, preserving, providing access to, and re-using. Facility with teaching others about research methods, how to use tools and how to identify data sources. Demonstrated understanding of metadata standards within the context of research data management. Ability to communicate with a diverse range of constituents with varying levels of knowledge and experience, including faculty, librarians, and students in a variety of disciplines. Ability to be proactive and work independently with varied user groups within a complex organization. Strong public service orientation. Strong commitment to inclusion, diversity, equity, and accessibility. 

*Relevant education and experience may be substituted as appropriate.*

**Preferred Qualifications**

Master’s degree in a data intensive research field and/or library and information science. Experience working with researchers on data management planning. Experience with Dataverse. Demonstrated familiarity with FAIR data principles. Experience with a programming language such as Python, JavaScript, or PHP. Familiarity with technologies used in high-performance computing. Experience with data manipulation and clean-up tools such as OpenRefine, Pandas for Python, or the tidyverse for R. Experience with the data presentation and visualization methods. Knowledge of quantitative data analysis applications such as Stata, R, SPSS, etc., and qualitative research tools such as Nvivo, Atlas.ti, etc. Demonstrated familiarity with issues and trends in scholarly communication. Strong organizational or project management skills. Experience with assigning metadata, transforming metadata, and/or batch metadata editing. Deep working knowledge of data management practices and the ability to advise researchers on planning, budgeting, and compliance with funder requirements (NSF, NIH, etc).

*Research indicates that applicants with marginalized identities are hesitant to apply for positions if they do not meet all of the qualifications. We want to emphasize that although experience in certain areas is desirable, candidates who meet the required qualifications or equivalencies, demonstrate excellent promise, and a passion for the field are encouraged to apply and will be given serious consideration. Opportunities for training, mentorship, and support from individuals with a variety of skill sets exist locally, regionally, and nationally.*

**Salary Range**

$60,000 + depending on qualifications

The University of Texas at Austin offers a wide variety of employee benefits, including:

- A robust and competitive health insurance package (employee medical insurance premiums covered at 100%, dependents 50%)
- Paid vacation, sick leave, and holidays
- Retirement plan with employer contributions immediately upon hire
- Flexible spending accounts for medical and childcare expenses

Please see our Prospective Employee Benefits webpage for more information.

Additionally, UT Libraries offers a healthy work life balance in an inclusive and kind working environment and flexible work arrangements.