+++
title = "Research Data Management Librarian"
employer = "University of Alabama at Birmingham"
employerurl = "https://www.uab.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://uab.peopleadmin.com/postings/9402"
postdate = "2021-07-28"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Alabama at Birmingham (UAB) Libraries seek an innovative, creative, and dynamic professional for the newly created position of Research Data Management Librarian. The successful candidate will be a member of the UAB Libraries’ new Office of Scholarly Communication and will provide leadership and direction for research data management and curation services in support of a large campus research community.

**Job Summary:**

The UAB Libraries are committed to advancing the University’s research priorities. Having a large and growing biomedical research portfolio, we seek a leader to build library research data management services that are responsive to emerging research needs. The scope of responsibilities for this position includes developing and implementing policies, procedures, and best practices for research data acquisition, creation, research information management, curation, and preservation. The successful candidate will also collaborate with other campus units, including IT Research Computing (https://www.uab.edu/it/home/research-computing), the UAB Center for Clinical and Translational Science (CCTS) (https://www.uab.edu/ccts), and the Office of Research (https://www.uab.edu/research/home), and will be involved at all phases of the research data life cycle. This position reports to the Associate Dean for Research and Scholarly Communication. This is a 12-month non-tenure track faculty position at the initial rank of Assistant or Associate Professor.

Review of applications will begin on September 15, 2021.

**Essential Responsibilities:**

Under the guidance of the Associate Dean for Research and Scholarly Communication, the Data Management Librarian:

- Collaborates with library and campus stakeholders to develop and provide robust data management services.
- Partners with researchers to evaluate data planning needs and assess options for sharing data.
- Delivers instruction & training, both in-person and online, to individuals and groups on topics relating to data management, rights, tools, and preservation.
- Develops and manages web resources to guide the creation, management, use, sharing, and stewardship of research data throughout its life cycle.
- Creates and maintains learning materials describing guidelines, best practices, and services offered through the UAB Libraries.
- Stays abreast of federal and private funding agency requirements for data management, openness, and retention.
- Continuously explores emerging areas related to research data services.
- Engages in research, publication, and professional service as required of UAB Libraries faculty.

**Qualifications**

Required Qualifications:

- American Library Association (ALA) accredited master’s degree or other advanced degree(s) appropriate to the position
- Experience with data management across the research lifecycle, including creating, processing, analyzing, preserving, accessing, and reusing research data, either from work experience or through academic course work
- Understanding of metadata standards in a research data context
- Experience with data documentation practices, including data use agreements
- Strong technical skills and problem-solving abilities related to data     management and curation software
- Demonstrated project management skills and ability to balance work priorities
- Excellent oral, written, and interpersonal communications skills
- Evidence of professional activity related to research data

Desired Qualifications:

- Formal coursework in a STEM (science, technology, engineering, or mathematics) field of study
- An advanced degree in a relevant subject area
- Certificate or equivalent in any informatics field
- Familiarity with the FAIR guidelines for accessibility and reuse of digital assets
- Data curation experience, with a demonstrated understanding of issues and technical challenges, including exportation/creation, format migration, preservation, metadata, and data retrieval for sharing/reuse
- Experience with creating metadata and working with digital repositories
- Experience in developing and delivering instruction in an academic setting
- Experience with data repository platforms, such as Open Science Framework, Dataverse, or Dryad
- Familiarity with one or more programming/statistical languages (such as R, Python, Matlab, SAS, Stata)
- Strong public service philosophy

UAB Libraries are committed to advancing equitable access to information, intellectual freedom, and the public good for the UAB community and the community at large. We recognize our social responsibility to advocate for marginalized voices and to inform and educate to promote diversity, equity, inclusion, and mutual respect. UAB is an Equal Opportunity/ Affirmative Action Employer committed to fostering a diverse, equitable and family-friendly environment in which all faculty and staff can excel and achieve work/ life balance irrespective of, race, national origin, age, genetic or family medical history, gender, faith, gender identity and expression as well as sexual orientation. UAB also encourages applications from individuals with disabilities and veterans. A pre-employment background check investigation is performed on candidates selected for employment.

**About UAB and Birmingham**

UAB has been ranked as the Top Young University in the United States for two consecutive years by Times Higher Education, and Forbes recently named UAB America’s No. 1 Best Large Employer, No. 4 in the nation among Best Employers for Diversity. UAB has been consistently recognized among a select few universities as a Diversity Champion by Insight into Diversity for the institution’s longstanding commitment to shared values that include diversity, inclusion and respect. UAB —among one of the most diverse campuses in the nation — is committed to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion efforts and creating an environment that can serve as a model for the kind of society we strive to build. UAB is the first university in the United States to adopt the Okanagan Charter and become an internationally recognized Health Promoting University.

Downtown Birmingham has enjoyed a revitalization in recent years, with the development of Railroad Park — an award-winning urban park — and its adjacent Regions Field, home to the minor league Birmingham Barons — an award-winning stadium. The park and stadium projects have kickstarted major growth in surrounding districts, including craft breweries, boutique shops, restaurants, loft and apartment buildings, innovative workspaces, and hotels.

There are a host of attractions only a short walk from UAB’s campus, the Birmingham Civil Rights District National Monument, composed of sites such as Sixteenth Street Baptist Church, Kelly Ingram Park and the Civil Rights Institute — a major destination for visitors from around the world. Birmingham's cultural scene is thriving, with museums, numerous galleries, music and arts festivals, theaters and live music venues, a professional ballet company, a professional opera company, a School of Fine Arts, the Jazz Hall of Fame, and the recent restoration of the historic Lyric and Alabama theaters. Birmingham is in proximity to many state and national parks, lakes, urban greenspaces, and hiking and biking trails. The city has more green space per capita than any other major city in the United States.