+++
title = "Librarian for Social Sciences and Economics"
employer = "New York University Shanghai"
employerurl = "https://shanghai.nyu.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://apply.interfolio.com/89283"
postdate = "2021-07-14"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
Location: Shanghai, China

**Description**

The New York University Shanghai Library seeks a Reference and Research Services Librarian for Social Sciences and Economics. The successful candidate will establish strong relationships with faculty and students in the disciplines of the social sciences, connecting them to the services, content, and tools that meet their research, teaching, and learning needs. We seek candidates who have the capacity to thrive in a fast-developing and ambiguous environment and have enthusiasm for building more experience on the job.

**About Social Sciences at NYU Shanghai**

NYU Shanghai offers degree programs in Economics, Social Work, and nine tracks in Social Science, including anthropology, environmental studies, global health, international relations, political economy, politics, psychology, sociology, and urban studies. These programs integrate a range of perspectives and methodologies to approach social phenomena and utilize analytical, ethnographic, experimental, interpretive, and statistical tools in teaching, learning, and scholarship.

**About the NYU Shanghai Library**

The Library of NYU Shanghai will deliver and coordinate a wide range of academic services that support the teaching, learning, and research of NYU Shanghai’s faculty and students.  Drawing on the resources of the libraries at NYU New York, the NYU Shanghai library provides an opportunity to create a forward-looking 21st-century library program and facility to serve a culturally diverse and academically talented population.

**About NYU Shanghai**

NYU Shanghai is the third degree-granting campus within New York University’s global network. It is the first higher education joint venture in China authorized to grant degrees that are accredited in the U.S. as well as in China. All teaching is conducted in English. A research university with liberal arts and science at its core, NYU Shanghai resides in one of the world's great cities with a vibrant intellectual community. NYU Shanghai recruits scholars of the highest caliber who are committed to NYU's global vision of transformative teaching and innovative research and who embody the global society in which we live.

NYU’s global network includes degree-granting campuses in New York, Shanghai, and Abu Dhabi, complemented by eleven additional academic centers across five continents. Faculty and students circulate within the network in pursuit of common research interests and cross-cultural, interdisciplinary endeavors, both local and global.

**Responsibilities**

Working in a collaborative environment, this position involves the following responsibilities:

- Serve as the Library’s primary liaison to faculty and students in Social Sciences and Economics programs and research institutes.
- Provide in-person, chat and email reference services and research consultations to members of the NYU community.
- Work closely with a team of librarians and instructional technologists to design and conduct library orientation programs, pre-scheduled and embedded library instructions, assessment and other Information Literacy activities.
- Provide specialized research and instructional support such as qualitative data tools, systematic review and meta-analysis to students and faculty in social science programs.
- Create connections between data providers and researchers, and help instructors and students find data in social sciences.
- Stay current with social sciences and economics research (e.g. methods and data resources); build collections in all formats that support teaching and research.
- Liaise with social sciences and economics faculty and administrators concerning future academic directions, programmatic needs, and changes in course offerings that may impact how the Library supports the department/program.
- Develop responsive outreach and other information services and take a leadership role on projects and initiatives as appropriate.
- Partner with colleagues at NYU New York, NYU Abu Dhabi, and across NYU’s global network to implement and enhance programs and services.
- Participate in library and system-wide committees and professional activities outside of the University.

**Qualifications**

Education

- ALA-accredited MLS or equivalent graduate LIS degree required
- Second master’s degree in a subject area relevant to the NYU Shanghai academic program preferred

Experience, Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities

- Strong commitment to reference service, library instruction and information literacy principles
- Previous experience in instruction, collection development, and/or reference services in an academic library, preferably in a research library
- Demonstrated experience providing strong customer service and quality services, including developing creative solutions in responsible areas to support and engage users
- Familiarity with social sciences and economics research resources
- Familiarity with trends in scholarly communication preferred
- Demonstrated excellent communication and interpersonal skills
- High proficiency in oral and written English; ability to read and speak Chinese preferred
- Experience working in a culturally diverse environment and/or prior international experience preferred
- Preference will be given to candidates with demonstrated social sciences and/or economics subject experience in an academic library environment; or an advanced degree in a related discipline

**Application Instructions**

Applicants should submit a cover letter and curriculum vitae.  Additionally, applicants will be prompted to enter the names and email addresses of at least three referees. Each referee will be contacted to upload a reference letter through Interfolio.

**Equal Employment Opportunity Statement**

NYU Shanghai is an equal opportunity employer committed to equity, diversity, and social inclusion. We strongly encourage applications from under-represented individuals in the profession, across color, creed, race, ethnic and national origin, physical ability, and gender and sexual identity. NYU Shanghai affirms the value of differing perspectives on the world as we strive to build the strongest possible university with the widest reach.