+++
title = "Analyst Programmer, Intermediate"
employer = "Georgia State University"
employerurl = "https://www.gsu.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://gsu.taleo.net/careersection/2/jobdetail.ftl?job=21000807&lang=en"
postdate = "2021-08-19"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
The University Library seeks an intermediate PHP developer (Analyst Programmer, Intermediate) with front-end experience and a passion for learning who is comfortable working in a full-stack LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP) environment.

Working under the guidance of the Analyst Programmer, Lead, the successful candidate will

- Develop custom websites and applications and extend existing websites and applications using WordPress, Omeka, and other frameworks such as Laravel
- Perform application, server, and database management tasks
- Answer tickets and provide support for the Library's blog, websites, SharePoint sites, and other applications
- Meet with Library and project stakeholders to refine and enhance project priorities, goals, and designs.
- Attend and take part in unit, division, and other organizational meetings

Disclaimer: This job requisition provides a high-level job definition. It is not intended to provide a comprehensive or exclusive list of job duties. As such, job duties and/or responsibilities within the context of this job requisition may change at the discretion the employee’s direct supervisor. 

**Qualifications**

Bachelor's degree and two years of related experience; or a combination of education and related experience. 

College/Business Unit: University Library 

Department: University Library, Web Services Unit 

Location: Atlanta Campus 

Shift: 8:30 AM - 5:15 PM | Monday - Friday 

Salary: $55,000 - $68,414 

Pay Grade: 17 

FLSA Status: Exempt 

Job Type: Full Time (Benefits Eligible) 

Job Posting: 09/20/21, 8:46:51 PM 

Closing Date: Open until filled 

**Preferred Hiring Qualifications:**

- Experience with Linux webserver configuration
- Experience with WordPress administration, theming, and/or plugin development
- Experience with Git and GitHub
- Experience working in an academic library environment

**Special Instructions:**

An application, resume, cover letter and a list of professional references are required for consideration.  In addition, please provide links to code repositories or samples if available.
 
Please note, Georgia State University’s career board updates daily and requisitions are subject to be removed without prior notice or before the posting expires. 
Georgia State University is an Equal Opportunity Employer and does not discriminate against applicants due to race, ethnicity, gender, veteran status, or on the basis of disability or any other federal, state or local protected class. 
