+++
title = "Acting Head of Department"
employer = "GESIS – Leibniz Institute for the Social Sciences"
employerurl = "https://www.gesis.org"
moreinfourl = "https://www.hidden-professionals.de/HPv3.Jobs/gesis/job/15174/Acting-Head-of-Department"
postdate = "2021-02-08"
archivedate = "2021-02-16"
draft = "false"
+++
Acting Head of Department
: Start: Immediately
: Career level: Expert
: Location: Cologne
: Department: DAS - Datenarchiv für Sozialwisenschaften
: Working time: Full- or part time (39,5 Hours per week)
: Temp job: Temporary

GESIS – Leibniz Institute for the Social Sciences is an internationally operating social science institution of the Leibniz Association, financed by the Federal Government and the Federal States.

For the Data Services department at the Cologne location we are looking for a **Kommissarische Abteilungsleitung** (100%, limited to 2 years) starting as soon as possible.

The department "Data Services" is a newly formed scientific department of GESIS that will emerge from the splitting of the Data Archive for the Social Sciences. It offers access to social sciences research data focused on national and international survey programs. In addition, it enables scientists to archive and provide their data. Being a central player in the social science infrastructure for research data, the department cooperates with German (e.g. RatSWD) and European (e.g. CESSDA) partner institutions in continuously improving the findability, usability of and accessibility to data in order to strengthen social science research.

**Your tasks will be:**

- You will manage the department "Data Services" and head its 30 dedicated staff members.
- You will be responsible for and manage the development and expansion of the department's infrastructure services and research in the field of research data management.
- You will be participating in the strategic decision making within the scientific management board of GESIS.

**Your profile:**

- You have a degree in a social and/or information science; doctoral degree is required.
- You possess skills in the management of social science research data, preferably with experience in structuring and organizing digital data as well as data management technologies.
- You have research interests in the field of data management, e.g., on issues of anonymization, data re-use, FAIRness of data etc.
- You have a strong leading personality, you have experience and skills in motivating team members, and you enjoy shaping an organizational unit.
- You are proficient in the German and English language.

**Our Offer:**

Depending on your individual qualification, a temporary civil servant appointment up to a W3 salary level, or an employment relationship according to TV-L EG 15 can be justified. This would also include a performance bonus adequate to a distinguished position.

Have we areoused your interest?
Please apply via our Online-application portal until 01.03.2021.
Our reference number is: DAS-80

GESIS offers an exciting work environment for interdisciplinary research at the interface between social sciences and computer sciences.  As an infrastructure institution, we serve the promotion of the social science research, and we are in close cooperation with well-known international research institutes.

GESIS supports your career developments. We offer a wide range of career possibilities within an attractive working atmosphere with a high level of self-responsibility and scope for action. You work in an international environment in the heart of cologne/Mannheim and you benefit from our flexible working area.

GESIS guarantees the attention of the disability regulations and advances the professional gender equality.

As a family-friendly employer, we are certified by the audit Work&Family since 2010.