+++
title = "Emerging Data Practices Librarian"
employer = "Cornell University"
employerurl = "https://cornell.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://cornell.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/CornellCareerPage/job/Ithaca-Main-Campus/Emerging-Data-Practices-Librarian---Cornell-University-Library_WDR-00025042-1"
postdate = "2021-02-26"
archivedate = "2021-03-02"
draft = "false"
+++
The Olin & Uris Libraries Research and Learning Services Department at Cornell University is seeking an Emerging Data Practices Librarian.

We are looking for someone who will help students and scholars become more confident users of data in the humanities and social sciences – particularly with emerging types of research data, including text. We want you to have some technical experience, and enthusiasm for building more experience on the job. But most importantly, we want you to bring a wide-ranging curiosity, a dedication to helping varied learners develop and grow, and a desire to help build an equitable and anti-racist interdisciplinary collective for applied information science.

Does this sound like you? If so, we’d love to talk. 

We know that no single data professional can specialize in everything. The person in this position will be a key member of the Digital CoLab team, but at Cornell University Library, we work together across departments, and across campus, to solve problems, learn new skills, and support each another’s work. If this position sounds good to you, please don’t allow fear of not having enough data skills get in the way of applying.

**Required Qualifications:**

What we're looking for more specifically:

- A demonstrated ability to apply data skills to humanities and social science research problems, textual data skills in particular. Right at this moment, you probably don't have all the technical skills you want to have, but you're enthusiastic about learning new ones, and you're able to orient to the basics of new tools pretty quickly. You're comfortable saying, “I don't know, but let's work on it together.” You like to dig.
- Experience with one or more tools or approaches that support emerging practices for using data in scholarship. Some possible examples:
  - Acquisition of datasets via webscraping and APIs (Application Programming Interfaces)
  - Approaches to computational text analysis
  - Building relational databases and creating data models
  - Principles of and tools for data visualization
  - Python or R for data wrangling and other tasks

The exact mix of skills that you develop over time will depend on your interests and the ongoing needs of Cornell researchers.

- An ability to meet both students and scholars wherever they are in their learning process, and a desire to help them grow. You have experience in some form of building connection and community. For example, this could be in education, mentoring, consulting, outreach, or another form of engagement.
- Good communication skills, especially when it comes to discussing complex ideas with various audiences. You can get a point across, and you're also a good listener.
- Knowledge of ways that minoritized groups have been marginalized in tech education and the tech industry. You have some ideas about how best to create a just and inclusive technical learning environment, and a sensitivity for ways that racism and sexism can appear in data collection and analysis, and in the impact of algorithms.
- A graduate degree. It might be in Library or Information Science, or it might be in something else entirely. It needs to be completed by the time you start the position, and no later than June 2021.

Benefits:  Our comprehensive benefits package includes 22 vacation days, 13 paid holidays, health insurance, life insurance, university retirement contributions, childcare and adoption assistance, and child tuition reimbursement. Funding is available to support professional training and research. More information regarding Cornell's generous benefits can be found at https://hr.cornell.edu/jobs/benefits-snapshot . The anticipated academic rank for this position is Assistant Librarian or Senior Assistant Librarian, depending on experience, with an anticipated salary range of $54,000-$60,000.


Please review the full posting for complete details. Incoming applications will be reviewed until a viable pool of applicants is identified; submission prior to March 30, 2021 is strongly encouraged. 
