+++
title = "Project Manager"
employer = "Association of Research Libraries"
employerurl = "https://www.arl.org"
moreinfourl = "https://www.arl.org/jobs/job-listings/a0I6T00000YZrMLUA1/"
postdate = "2021-09-03"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
Project Manager
: Association of Research Libraries 
: Job Location: District of Columbia 

The Association of Research Libraries (ARL) seeks an exceptional colleague to advance research efforts around public access to research data. ARL is a collective of 125 leading research libraries and archives in Canada and the United States.

The project manager will be a member of ARL’s Scholars and Scholarship team, which advances a portfolio of public policy and institutional initiatives to achieve equitable and barrier-free access to information, and support new forms of scholarship. This position presents a unique opportunity to work on some of the leading research and professional practice questions of the Information Age, in close collaboration with higher education and scholarly communities and with the ultimate aim of advancing public access to research data.

This is a two-year, grant-funded position that will engage and support several universities in better understanding local infrastructure for public access to research data. Specifically, the project manager will assist the research team in answering the following questions:

- Where are funded researchers sharing their data and what is the quality of that metadata
- How are researchers making decisions about why and how to share research data?
- What is the cost to the institution to implement the federally mandated public access to research data policy?

The project manager will report to the director of scholars and scholarship,and will work closely with ARL members and members and affiliates of the Data Curation Network research team.


**Major Responsibilities**

- Plan and implement the research project plan in coordination with research team
- Collaboratively develop and implement surveys, forms, and data collecting instruments to meet research project goals
- Develop and coordinate focus group interviews in collaboration with the research team
- Work with the research team in the development of discipline-specific and infrastructure-based functional models for how public access to research data is taking place on academic campuses using institutional resources.
- Write reports and briefs to inform ARL membership in ongoing developments on open scholarship topics
- Present findings at national and international conferences and professional meetings
- Organize and coordinate meetings as appropriate. Submit receipts and invoices for processing

**Required**

- Bachelor’s degree
- Experience managing projects across multiple stakeholders
- Familiarity with research data management and curation
- A community-engaged mindset
- Experience in survey design and research methodologies
- Experience with Microsoft Office, Google Suite, and/or Adobe Acrobat Pro
- Excellent written and verbal communication skills

**Preferred**

- Experience working with research data management and curation
- Association, higher education, and/or library experience is a plus
- Recent MLIS graduates are encouraged to apply
- Experience with qualitative analysis software, such as NVIVO, Qualtrics, or others

**Salary**

$70,000 per year + benefits

**About the Association of Research Libraries**

The Association of Research Libraries (ARL) is a nonprofit organization of 125 research libraries in Canada and the US whose mission is to advance research, learning, and scholarly communication. The Association fosters the open exchange of ideas and expertise, promotes equity and diversity, and pursues advocacy and public policy efforts that reflect the values of the library, scholarly, and higher education communities. ARL forges partnerships and catalyzes the collective efforts of research libraries to enable knowledge creation and to achieve enduring and barrier-free access to information. ARL is on the web at ARL.org.
Recruitment

ARL is an equal opportunity employer, and is firmly committed to providing opportunities for outstanding persons of every race/ethnicity, gender, creed, and background. ARL encourages applications from candidates who thrive in diverse and inclusive environments. ARL offers competitive benefits including medical and dental insurance, sick leave, 22 days of vacation, and a 403(b) retirement plan. Applications will be reviewed beginning immediately, and the posting will remain open until filled. Qualified applicants should submit a letter outlining interest and relevant experience and a résumé using this application form. 