+++
title = "Research Data Scientist"
employer = "University of Virginia"
employerurl = "https://www.virginia.edu"
moreinfourl = ""
postdate = "2021-09-08"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Virginia (UVA) Library seeks a Research Data Scientist to support researchers at all levels and across all disciplines engaged in data-intensive research by providing quantitative and computational support. The incumbent will advise and instruct students, faculty, and staff on preparing data for analysis, implementing and interpreting statistical methods and machine learning models, visualizing and communicating about data, and incorporating research practices for open and reproducible science.  The incumbent may also be called upon to provide guidance on technical data management issues, including acquisition, transfer, and storage of data.

The Research Data Scientist will develop and provide educational opportunities to support researchers at all proficiency levels, assessing needs, coordinating learning opportunities, and actively marketing content. This includes developing hands-on workshops on topics such as getting started with statistical software, implementing and interpreting statistical methods, creating effective data visualizations, and deploying interactive web-based dashboards and visualizations. The incumbent will also contribute to online instructional content by writing tutorials and providing access to all workshop materials.

The position will be a member of the University Library’s Research Data Services & Social, Natural, Engineering Sciences team providing data discovery and management services to support the full data lifecycle. The incumbent will collaborate with Library colleagues to stay abreast of current and anticipated data needs and to promote data skills throughout the Library. The Research Data Scientist will also partner with the Senior Research Data Scientist to work with multiple stakeholders across the institution and to contribute to data-related services via pan-university initiatives.

**Required qualifications:**

- Master’s Degree and at least 4 years of related experience with data, data analysis, and research
- Proficiency with one statistical or computational environment (e.g., R, SPSS, Stata, Python).
- Experience with data wrangling, such as merging data, reshaping data, or manipulating data via the use of regular expressions.
- Experience performing statistical inference, such as linear models/regression, generalized linear models, or mixed-effect/multilevel models.
- Experience plotting and graphing data for exploratory and presentation purposes.
- Knowledge of open and reproducible research practices.
- Excellent communication skills and demonstrated ability to provide public service. 
- Competence in public speaking and providing instruction, both formal and informal, to varying audiences and skill levels.
- Demonstrated commitment to fostering an environment of equity, diversity, and inclusion.
- Demonstrated commitment to professional development and continuing to learn and evolve as a data scientist.

**Preferred Qualifications**

- Knowledge of one additional statistical or computational environment.
- Experience with version control (e.g., Git and GitHub).
- Knowledge of data technologies (e.g., Spark) and computational environments (e.g., AWS).
- Experience delivering statistical research support in an academic environment.
- Experience working with others in a team environment.

Salary offered will be commensurate with experience, starting at $72,000.

Applicants must apply through the University of Virginia online employment website at https://jobs.virginia.edu/. Search by posting number R0028179, complete the application, and attach a cover letter and resume with contact information for three professional references.  Initial review of applications will occur on October 4, 2021 and will continue until the position is filled.

**COVID Vaccination Requirement**

The University of Virginia expects all current and new employees (UVA Health System and Academic), to be vaccinated against COVID-19.

If hired to work within the University Health System, you will be required to provide proof of vaccination or be willing to receive the vaccination. Employees may request a medical or religious exemption from vaccination.

If hired to work on the Academic side of the University, excluding the School of Medicine, School of Nursing, UPG, and the Health Systems Library, you will be required to provide proof of vaccination or be willing to submit to mandatory, weekly prevalence testing. Employees that are working 100% remotely will not be subject to weekly prevalence testing; however, if the employee works on UVA Grounds (including the Medical Center) even intermittently, then they are required to be tested for COVID-19 once per week on an indefinite basis and follow masking mandates.

NOTE: Some medical and safety-sensitive positions require vaccination and are not eligible for an exemption. For more information on how the vaccination and testing requirements will apply to you at your work location, see the UVA New Hire Vaccination Requirements webpage.

The University of Virginia, including the UVA Health System which represents the UVA Medical Center, Schools of Medicine and Nursing, UVA Physician’s Group and the Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, are fundamentally committed to the diversity of our faculty and staff. We believe diversity is excellence expressing itself through every person's perspectives and lived experiences. We are equal opportunity and affirmative action employers. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to age, color, disability, gender identity or expression, marital status, national or ethnic origin, political affiliation, race, religion, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, veteran status, and family medical or genetic information.