+++
title = "Research Data Librarian"
employer = "The Ohio State University"
employerurl = "https://osu.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://osu.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/OSUCareers/job/Columbus-Campus/Research-Data-Librarian_R5343-2"
postdate = "2021-03-01"
archivedate = "2021-03-02"
draft = "false"
+++
The Research Data Librarian will provide leadership in developing a programmatic approach to research data services for The Ohio State University Libraries. The Research Data Librarian is responsible for providing supports students and faculty alike through instruction and consultation, providing support and education for the use of secondary data, assists researchers with data management plans, data sharing and long-term data stewardship options, and facilitates the interpretation of data in various contexts. This position will emphasize collaborating with researchers in the sciences and social sciences, but may support data practices and literacies in a wide variety of disciplines and with other populations. The Research Data Librarian will also work to coordinate data education, curation of open data, and consultation activities. Through consultations, training, advocacy, and collaborative initiatives, the Research Data Librarian supports data practices across many phases of research and learning.

Reporting to the Head of Research Services, the Research Data Librarian will work with stakeholders and researchers within the Libraries, Ohio State, and external partners to address issues related to the discovery, use, and stewardship of research data. The successful candidate will innovate and collaborate with a team of colleagues in the Libraries to maintain/improve systems for description, storage, discovery, and access to tabular, spatial, and text-corpus data. The Research Data Librarian will lead inreach efforts in the Libraries in order to spread awareness of library resources and services among researchers, including faculty, staff and students. The Research Data Librarian will participate in librarywide committees, activities, and special projects, especially those involving newly implemented technologies and data.

**Responsibilities:**

- Build on successful data management education and outreach to support researchers and scholars, as well as departmental or cross-institutional research teams.
- Supervise the Data Services Specialist for Outreach and Education.
- Partner with the Office of Research and appropriate personnel within the Colleges to increase faculty awareness of data mandates and funder requirements.
- Work with library and campus partners to foster open scholarship initiatives focused on research transparency, reproducibility, and openness.
- Lead and provide consultation services for OSU faculty, staff, and students on data-related issues and challenges arising from their research.
- Support data literacies alongside other member of the Research Services Department, especially for research that has specialized data management needs.
- Lead in-reach efforts for subject liaisons, Area Studies librarians, archivists, curators and other Libraries’ personnel around data support services.
- Lead efforts to improve systems for the discovery, use, and delivery of library leased or owned data sets.
- Represent the Libraries at campus, consortial and other meetings concerning research data issues.
- Demonstrate a commitment to a diverse and inclusive workforce and work environment.

**Required Qualifications:**

- An ALA-accredited master’s degree or a comparable graduate degree from a non-US university (reviewed on a case-by-case basis), or a terminal degree in a relevant data-intensive discipline.
- Familiarity with foundational concepts of metadata, data formats, and systems for managing and sharing research data.
- Knowledge of the research data lifecycle.
- Demonstrated experience building and maintaining effective partnerships and collaborations in creative ways in a complex environment.
- Excellent communication and documentation skills.
- Commitment to librarianship, scholarship, and service, which are required criteria to meet University and University Libraries requirements for promotion and tenure
https://library.osu.edu/document-registry/docs/1017/stream.

**Desired Qualifications:**

- Flexibility and creativity in leading change in an evolving, complex, and ambiguous environment.
- Demonstrated knowledge of current trends and technical, legal, and information policy on data repositories, public data sets, and funder data management requirements.
- Experience developing research data services program
- Supervisory experience in an academic or research library.

**Discover Ohio State**

For 151 years, The Ohio State University's campus in Columbus has been the stage for academic achievement and a laboratory for innovation. The university's main campus is one of America's largest and most comprehensive. As Ohio's best and one of the nation's top-20 public universities, Ohio State also includes a top-rated academic medical center and a premier cancer hospital and research center. As a land-grant university, Ohio State has a physical presence throughout the state, with campuses and research centers located around Ohio.

**About The Ohio State University Libraries**

The Libraries promotes innovative research and creative expression, advances effective teaching, curates and preserves information essential for scholarship and learning at Ohio State, and shares knowledge and culture with the people of Ohio, the nation, and the world. Libraries faculty and staff live these values in all that we do: Discovery, Connection, Equity, Integrity, and Stewardship. Learn about our strategic directions here https://library.osu.edu/strategic-directions.

The Libraries’ greatest resource is our faculty and staff. Their expertise produces value beyond the collections and their commitment to continual improvement and innovation is one of the most significant ways the Libraries meets the diverse and evolving information needs of university students, faculty, and staff, alongside scholars throughout Ohio and the world.

As a global leader, the Libraries is actively engaged in local, statewide, national, and international initiatives to help shape the future of academic research libraries. These activities and the innovations that result enhance our ability to acquire, manage, and preserve emerging information resources, support knowledge creation, and enable its effective transmission to future learners. Information about the Libraries is available at https://library.osu.edu.

The Libraries strives to provide welcoming, supportive environments for all to pursue and share knowledge. The Libraries is guided by our strategic priorities that facilitate, celebrate and honor diversity, inclusion, access and social justice. All positions are expected to contribute to building and advancing this environment, and we encourage candidates to apply who share these values.

**Appointment**

This is a full-time, regular, 12-month appointment as a tenure-track faculty member. The candidate will be required to meet university and Libraries requirements for promotion and tenure. Faculty rank at either Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, or Professor are dependent on qualifications and experience.

**Salary**

$65,000 to $75,000 annual salary negotiable.

**Benefits**

The university offers competitive benefits in the form of 22 days’ vacation, 15 days’ sick leave, 10 holidays, hospitalization, major medical, surgical-medical, dental, vision, long-term disability insurance, and life insurance at 2.5 times one’s annual salary. State and alternative retirement choices are also available. For a summary of benefits, see: https://hr.osu.edu/new-employees/benefits-overview.

**Application**

Please submit cover letter, CV, references, and application at https://go.osu.edu/data-librarian by March 15, 2021.

The Ohio State University is an equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation or identity, national origin, disability status, or protected veteran status. The Ohio State University is a member of the Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL) Diversity Alliance.