+++
title = "Data Librarian/Specialist"
employer = "Cornell University"
employerurl = "https://www.cornell.edu"
moreinfourl = ""
postdate = "2021-10-18"
archivedate = "2021-12-28"
draft = "false"
+++
The Cornell University Law Library seeks a Data Librarian/Specialist to join our team as a valued member of the Cornell Law Library, Cornell Law School, and Cornell University Library community. We value and invite qualified candidates who can further advance our community’s diversity of backgrounds, perspectives, and lived experiences, and who will share a willingness to join our efforts to cultivate an environment of diversity, inclusion and belonging. Cornell Law Library is committed to stretching ourselves and one another to build inclusion into our work in building inclusive and antiracist curricula, research resources, and services.

In this newly-defined role, the Data Librarian/Specialist will facilitate the Law Library’s efforts to embed data literacies into our services. This person will lead data-related initiatives in the Law Library, but at Cornell we work together across departments to solve problems, learn new skills, and support each other’s work. No single data professional can specialize in everything. Please apply even if you are not an expert in every facet of data science. The Law Library is committed to facilitating training as necessary to support the growth of this position.

**KEY RESPONSIBILITIES: Data Services**

- Lead initiatives relating to data literacy within the Law Library;
- Provide support for Law Library services to students, faculty, and administrative stakeholders on data analysis and research;
- Collaborate with other members of the Law Library to promote data-driven decision- making;
- Depending on qualifications and career interests, lead research data management for the Law Library and its constituents. 

**Instruction / Research Services**

- Instruct on data literacy, data analysis, or data sciences, in conjunction with partners across campus, as applied to legal information and law practice;
- Participate in Law Library liaison and outreach programs within the Law School community;
- Select and recommend materials for the Law Library’s collection;
- Depending on qualifications and career interests, instruct on topics related to legal information and research in 1L legal research classes as an adjunct professor of law. 

**Professional Development / University Service**

- Contribute to the intellectual and community life of the Law School and Law Library, including orientation activities;
- Participate in Cornell University Library committees;
- Participate in and potentially facilitate peer training in data literacies;
- Promotion to higher librarian ranks will reflect professional service and contributions to scholarship. 

**Required Qualifications:**

We know that no single person can specialize in everything. At Cornell University Library and in the Law Library we work together across teams, and across campus, to solve problems, learn new skills, and support each other’s work. If this position sounds good to you, please don’t allow fear of not having enough experience, skills, or credentials stop you from applying.

- Graduate or professional degree (law, library science, or data-centered disciplines preferred). Completion of degree is necessary by appointment date;
- Demonstrated interest in data literacies, and the initiative to learn advanced data skills;
- Commitment to advancing diversity, equity, and inclusion in Law Library and Law School community;
- Demonstrated success in working collaboratively and flexibly;
- Excellent interpersonal and communication skills: ability to listen actively, speak and write clearly, and effectively present information and ideas to groups. 

**Preferred Qualifications:**

- Data mining/management experience, potentially including acquisition of datasets via scraping or API; text mining and analysis; data visualization; Python and R (or similar);
- Experience in a law library, academic library, or legal information setting;
- Experience supporting empirical legal research;
- Demonstrated ability to conduct and teach legal research. 

**Benefits:** Cornell University takes pride in offering generous benefits to support and enhance the health, wealth, and wellness of our employees. More information regarding Cornell’s benefits can be found at https://hr.cornell.edu/jobs/benefits-snapshot .

**Appointment Rank and Salary Range:** Depending on experience and qualifications of the successful candidate, they may be appointed as:

- Assistant or Senior Assistant Librarian, with a salary range of $55,000-$70,000, or
- Associate Librarian with a salary range of $71,000-$85,000. 

Please do not allow limited experience to stop you from applying.

**Diversity and Inclusion:** The Cornell Law Library embraces diversity and inclusion and seeks candidates who will contribute to a climate that supports and reflects our communities of law students, faculty and staff of all identities and backgrounds. We believe in the power of representation and strongly encourage individuals from underrepresented identities to apply.

Cornell University Library is a member of the ACRL Diversity Alliance, which unites academic libraries who are committed to increasing the hiring pipeline of qualified and talented individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups.

Cornell Law School is among the nation's most inclusive top law schools and has been since its founding. Diversity at Cornell Law School is not a new concept, nor did it happen by chance. It’s part of what makes us who we are. Cornell Law’s diversity story is still being written. One of our ongoing priorities is to provide opportunities for women and minorities, both in our student body and in faculty positions. We believe the richest learning environment is one in which people from all backgrounds are encouraged to share their perspectives.

**How to Apply:** Candidates must apply online via the Cornell Careers site (search: WDR-00028273). Incoming applications will be reviewed until a viable pool of applicants is identified; submission prior to November 15, 2021 is strongly encouraged. Although we prefer to receive applications as one multi- page PDF document, we will accept multiple documents in other formats. We ask that you include in your application a cover letter, curriculum vitae, and a brief statement about how your appointment would contribute to our efforts to further diversity, equity, and inclusion. We invite you to describe past or present activities or future aspirations, or a combination of these, including lived experience, and to convey how you see these commitments continuing at Cornell. You may focus on teaching, research, or service in study, work, or community, or a combination of these. You may incorporate this statement into your cover letter OR present it as a separate short statement.

Relocation assistance may be provided.

Visa sponsorship is not available for this position.

**Environment:** One of the leading academic research libraries in the United States, Cornell University Library is a highly valued partner in teaching, research, and learning at the university. The Library’s world-class collections, expert librarians, and responsive services in physical and virtual library spaces inspire and nourish scholarship and learning.

The Law Library’s services, collections, and activities reach into the digital environment and to partners around the world. Innovative, inclusive, and technologically creative practice and a commitment to diversity, equity, and high standards in our collections and our services to our students, faculty, and colleagues, wherever they may be, are among our priorities. With our extensive and carefully curated digital and print and digital collections, instructional programs, technological tools, our dedicated librarians and staff enable the Law Library to be a valuable research and instructional partner of the Law School and collaborator of the rest of the Cornell University Library system.

The Law Library is a focal point of diversity, vibrant spirit, and intellectual community of Cornell Law School, which is a top-tier yet intimate and collegial school serving about 600 J.D. students, 90 LL.M. students, doctoral students, and other professional graduate degree students.

Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York state, and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ’ dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ’ people, past and present, to these lands and waters. Learn more about its land acknowledgment. 