+++
title = "Business Librarian"
employer = "University of Arkansas"
employerurl = "https://www.uark.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://uasys.wd5.myworkdayjobs.com/UASYS/job/Fayetteville/Business-Librarian_R0002926-1"
postdate = "2021-04-19"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Arkansas Libraries invites nominations for and applications from energetic, flexible, and innovative candidates for the position of Business Librarian. The Libraries seek candidates who are receptive to change, who foster new ideas and who have demonstrated collaboration and open communication skills. Additional key attributes are the ability to create and foster successful partnerships with other university departments and stakeholders, to provide excellent services, and to adapt or adopt programs and services that support positive change within the institution.

The Business Librarian serves as a member of the Research and Instruction Services team supporting undergraduate, graduate, and faculty research in the Sam M. Walton College of Business.  In support of entrepreneurial initiatives, the Business Librarian works to develop partnerships with the Office of Entrepreneurship & Innovation, the McMillian Innovation Studio, and the Brewer Family Entrepreneurship Hub.  Additionally, the position supports the Walton Research & Outreach Centers (i.e., Supply Chain Management Research Center, Center for Retailing Excellence, and Blockchain Center of Excellence) and the key signature research areas.  The Business Librarian will devise and deliver services that enhance the research and teaching needs of the Sam M. Walton College of Business students and faculty.

We are seeking candidates with broad business and entrepreneurship information skills.   Responsibilities include library instruction, research assistance, collection development, and academic outreach.  Additionally, the Business Librarian collaboratively develops library programs and outreach initiatives with other members of the team and reports to the Director of Research and Instruction Services.

Along with performance,  this position includes research and creative work and service in keeping with the faculty requirements of the University of Arkansas. The successful candidate should possess an exemplary service orientation; the ability to work effectively in a diverse and changing environment; a willingness to engage in faculty liaison activities, including outreach and collection development; initiative and flexibility; strong interpersonal skills and demonstrated ability in working collaboratively with team members, other library colleagues, and students, faculty and staff; and effective oral and written communication skills.

**Qualifications.**

**Minimum Qualifications:**

- A master’s degree from an ALA-accredited program
- Degree in business or significant experience providing business reference services in a research library
- Demonstrated experience providing research assistance, library instruction, and outreach
- Demonstrated subject knowledge and familiarity with business resources and research methodologies

**Preferred Qualifications:**

- Demonstrated experience teaching or providing classroom instruction or public presentation experience
- Demonstrated experience selecting and acquiring datasets to support research
- Working knowledge of emerging trends in digital scholarship and data visualization in business
- Strong analytical, planning, and organizational skills
- Graduate degree in business
- Collection development experience

**Rank and Salary:** Tenure-track, twelve-month faculty appointment at the rank of Assistant Librarian / Assistant Professor or Associate Librarian / Associate Professor. Salary: $53,000 minimum.

**Benefits:** Relocation allowance available. Benefits include TIAA or Fidelity Investments, 22 days of annual leave, tuition reduction, and health insurance.

**Background:**

Founded in 1871, the University of Arkansas is a land grant institution, classified by the Carnegie Foundation among the nation’s top 2 percent of universities with the highest level of research activity. The University of Arkansas works to advance Arkansas and build a better world through education, research and outreach by providing transformational opportunities and skills, promoting an inclusive and diverse culture and climate, and nurturing creativity, discovery and the spread of new ideas and innovations. Ten colleges and schools serve more than 27,600 students with 200+ academic programs. U of A students earn nationally competitive awards at an impressive rate and represent all 50 states and 120 countries.

The University of Arkansas campus is located in Fayetteville, a welcoming community ranked as one of the best places to live in the U.S. The growing region surrounding Fayetteville is home to numerous Fortune 500 companies and one of the nation’s strongest economies. Northwest Arkansas is also quickly gaining a national reputation for its focus on the arts and overall quality of life. Arkansas is a natural wonder of forests, mountains and lakes framed by picturesque rivers and streams. Some of the best outdoor amenities and most spectacular hiking trails are a short drive from campus.

The University Libraries are poised to rethink our services, spaces, collections, and programs supporting our faculty, students, and the state of Arkansas. The University Libraries are comprised of Mullins Library and three branch libraries: Chemistry & Biochemistry, Fine Arts, Physics, as well as two storage facilities.  Our libraries have a budget of approximately $15 million, and a workforce of 150 faculty, professional, and classified staff.  For more information, please go to https://libraries.uark.edu/jointheteam/.

The Walton College of Business offers nine undergraduate majors, multiple Master’s and Ph.D. programs, and occupies four different buildings—Willard J. Walker Hall, the Business Building, the Donald W. Reynolds Center for Enterprise Development, and the J.B. Hunt Transport Services Center for Academic Excellence. It has been generously funded by donors, and has several endowments.  To find more information visit their website at https://walton.uark.edu/about/mission-vision-history.php#history

**Application deadline and contact information.**

Women and minorities are encouraged to apply. Completed applications received by May 7, 2021, will receive full consideration. For the full posting or to apply, please go to https://uasys.wd5.myworkdayjobs.com/UASYS/job/Fayetteville/Business-Librarian_R0002926-1. When completing your application, please upload the following: letter of application, résumé, and names, addresses, and telephone numbers of three current references.