+++
title = "STEM Librarian"
employer = "University of California Santa Cruz"
employerurl = "https://www.ucsc.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://recruit.ucsc.edu/JPF01100"
postdate = "2021-07-13"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
The University Library at the University of California, Santa Cruz (UCSC) invites applications for the position of STEM Librarian. Under the direction of the Head of Research Support Services, the STEM Librarian will support the Library’s strategic priorities related to access and discovery, research and scholarship, and student success in the areas of science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM).

For this position, we seek a user-focused and creative individual to lead the Library in envisioning its role in support of engineering research, teaching, and learning within an equity and inclusion framework. The Library has established STEM support through initiatives and partnerships housed in the Science & Engineering Library, including the STEM Hub, the Digital Scholarship Innovation Studio, and the Video Game Lab, and looks to this position to identify new opportunities and strategies for best engaging with engineering students, faculty, and researchers. We welcome candidates who are seeking to launch a career in science librarianship and/or established STEM librarians seeking professional growth.

The STEM Librarian will serve as the Library’s divisional liaison to the Jack Baskin School of Engineering and, as such, will: lead the Library in developing a clear understanding of the research, curricular, and scholarly communication practices and needs in the School of Engineering; set a strategy for Library support of engineering-related teaching and learning; and spearhead efforts to communicate and engage with the School on behalf of the Library. As a member of the Library’s Research Support Services Department, the incumbent will contribute to departmental services and projects and collaborate closely with the Library’s divisional liaison to the Physical and Biological Sciences Division. The STEM Librarian will be expected to participate on relevant Library project teams, system-wide committees, and professional organizations.

This position will be shaped by the research and curricular needs of the School of Engineering as identified by the candidate through their research and engagement with students and faculty. Applicants with any of the following qualifications or experiences are encouraged to apply:

- Experience developing and assessing services to support or enhance research, teaching, and/or scholarship;
- Experience teaching STEM undergraduates and developing online learning objects;
- Ability to consult with students/researchers on library resources and research strategies for STEM disciplines;
- Knowledge of ways that minoritized groups have been marginalized in STEM education and strategies for creating inclusive and antiracist learning environments;
- Knowledge of STEM scholarly communication trends and practices including open science, open educational resources (OER), research data management, data carpentries, and science communication; and/or
- Undergraduate or graduate degree or equivalent training/work experience in science, technology, engineering, or mathematics.

We are most interested in finding the best candidate for the job and recognize that candidate may be one who comes from a less traditional background. We encourage you to apply, even if you don't meet all of the qualifications/experiences listed above.

Position duration: This position is a member of the Professional Librarians Unit (LX) and is represented by the American Federation of Teachers (AFT). Non-temporary appointments to the Librarian Series at UCSC are offered as potential career or career status as appropriate (see Article 4 D. Terms of Service of the UC-AFT labor contract). In accordance with policy, the selected candidate will undergo the Librarian Peer Review process where their performance will be reviewed and assessed. The Librarian Peer Review outcomes will determine the candidate’s suitability to receive career status and to move through the ranks.

Salary range: $58,365 - $89,392, commensurate with qualifications and experience.

Percent time: Full-time (100%).

UCSC values diversity, equity, and inclusion and is committed to hiring faculty and staff who share these values. UCSC is a Hispanic-Serving Institution (HSI) with a high proportion of first-generation students. To be considered, candidates must understand the barriers facing historically oppressed groups in higher education, and, through education, teaching, research, professional activity, and/or creative practice, demonstrate effective strategies that support the success of underrepresented groups in creative, professional, and/or scholarly fields. Activities promoting equity and inclusion at UC Santa Cruz will be recognized as important university service during the librarian review process.

The successful candidate will be a member of the Librarians Association of the University of California (LAUC). Research, publication, and/or service to the University and profession are expected for continuing advancement. More information can be found at the Library Association of the University of California.

Interested applicants are invited to attend an informational webinar to learn more about the position, the campus, and the University Library. Please register using the links provided.

The hiring unit will not sponsor employment-eligible immigration statuses for this position.

**Qualifications**

Basic qualifications (required at time of application)

- Knowledge of science, technology, engineering, and/or math information resources as demonstrated by professional experience or coursework.
- Public speaking experience as evidenced in candidate’s curriculum vitae by a list of presentations, workshops, and/or talks conducted in libraries, professional conferences, coursework, or comparable venues.
- Experience managing/leading a project, group project, or program.

Additional qualifications (required at time of start)

- An ALA-accredited MLS or MLIS degree (or equivalent foreign degree) OR a Master’s degree (or equivalent foreign degree) in any field with at least two years of experience providing information, research, teaching, and/or scholarly communication support in a library or other academic setting. It is expected the degree requirement will be completed by September 15, 2021.

**Application Requirements**

Document requirements

- Curriculum Vitae
- Cover Letter - Letter of application that briefly summarizes your qualifications and interest in the position, including how you meet the position’s advertised basic qualifications.
- Statement of Contributions to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion - Statement addressing your understanding of the barriers facing traditionally underrepresented groups and your past and/or future contributions to diversity, equity, and inclusion through teaching and professional or public service. Candidates are urged to review guidelines on statements (see https://apo.ucsc.edu/diversity.html) before preparing their application.

Reference requirements

- 3-5 required (contact information only)

Applicants must provide the names and contact information of their references. The hiring unit will request confidential letters from the references of those applicants who are under serious consideration. Additionally, the committee may elect to contact the applicant’s references to ask follow-up questions. Note that your references, or dossier service, will submit their confidential letters directly to the UC Recruit System.

All letters will be treated as confidential per University of California policy and California state law. For any reference letter provided via a third party (i.e., dossier service, career center), direct the author to UCSC’s confidentiality statement at http://apo.ucsc.edu/confstm.htm.

**Campus Information**

The University of California is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, or protected veteran status. UC Santa Cruz is committed to excellence through diversity and strives to establish a climate that welcomes, celebrates, and promotes respect for the contributions of all students and employees. Inquiries regarding the University’s equal employment opportunity policies may be directed to the Office for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at the University of California, Santa Cruz, CA 95064 or by phone at (831) 459-2686.

Under Federal law, the University of California may employ only individuals who are legally able to work in the United States as established by providing documents as specified in the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. Certain UCSC positions funded by federal contracts or sub-contracts require the selected candidate to pass an E-Verify check (see https://www.uscis.gov/e-verify). The university sponsors employment-based visas for nonresidents who are offered academic appointments at UC Santa Cruz (see https://apo.ucsc.edu/policy/capm/102.530.html).

UCSC is a smoke & tobacco-free campus.

UCSC is committed to addressing the spousal and partner employment needs of our candidates and employees. As part of this commitment, our institution is a member of the Northern California Higher Education Recruitment Consortium (NorCal HERC). Visit the NorCal HERC website at https://www.hercjobs.org/regions/higher-ed-careers-northern-california/ to search for open positions within a commutable distance of our institution.

The University of California offers a competitive benefits package and a number of programs to support employee work/life balance. For information about employee benefits please visit https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/compensation-and-benefits/index.html

Job location: Santa Cruz, California
