+++
title = "Product Manager"
employer = "University of Michigan, ICPSR"
employerurl = "https://www.icpsr.umich.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.umich.edu/job_detail/192611/product_manager"
postdate = "2021-01-07"
archivedate = "2021-02-04"
draft = "false"
+++
Working Title: Product Manager
: Job Title: Business Systems Analyst Sr
: Work Location: Ann Arbor Campus Ann Arbor, MI
: Full-Time, Regular
: FLSA Status: Exempt
: Organizational Group: Inst Soc Research
: Department: ICPSR
: Posting Begin/End Date: 12/17/2020 – 1/14/2021
: Salary: $75,000.00 – $95,000.00
: Career Interest: Information Technology

**Job Summary**

We are now accepting applications for a Product Manager to help create quality products and guide a first-class user experience on our platforms and tools that support the research data lifecycle. Our software development process is centered around iterative, user-centered development through the agile methodology. As a Product Manager, you will engage with multiple stakeholders to build a shared understanding of the problem and solution with the delivery team.

You will report to the Chief Product Manager.

**Who We Are**

The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR), at the University of Michigan, is the world's largest archive of digital social science data and is an international consortium of more than 800 academic institutions and research organizations around the world. We provide services and resources to a growing community including students, scholars, policy analysts, policymakers, government officials, and the media.

ICPSR is a great place to build your career with our diverse staff and a collegial atmosphere that fosters communication, collaboration, and new ideas.
Responsibilities*

- Be a product owner for one of ICPSR’s software development teams.
- Oversee product strategy and translate user needs into user stories, acceptance criteria, and prototypes.
- Manage the product backlog to reflect the priorities for each development cycle, ensuring all requests are described, estimated, and prioritized.
- Advocate for customer and partner needs inside and outside of the University of Michigan to provide roadmap updates, get product feedback, and identify challenges and opportunities.
- Ensure user-centered design that considers customer pain points, usability test results, and market research.
- Manage multiple engagements and competing priorities.
- Assist ICPSR faculty and staff in creating proposals, budgets, and work plans.

**Required Qualifications***

- Bachelor’s degree, or an equivalent combination of education and related experience.
- Experience working in agile and sprint-based delivery environments and working with software developers to ensure business needs are understood.
- Five or more years related experience (e.g., in managing one or multiple products end-to-end, performing business/workflow analysis, developing detailed requirements, defining and delivering roadmaps, or implementing an ongoing program of improvements that respond to user feedback and needs).
- Experience making decisions in a customer-centric way and critically evaluating information gathered from multiple sources and distinguishing user requests from the underlying true user needs.
- Experience writing user acceptance criteria and working with partners to ensure business needs are met.

**Desired Qualifications***

- Graduate degree in a related field.
- Experience with an agile framework tool (such as Jira).
- Five years of experience managing large suites of multiple products.
- Certified Scrum Product Owner Training, PMI Agile Certified Practitioner, or similar certification.
- Experience with Social Science research or research data.
- Experience with behavioral-driven development (BDD).
- Experience working with IT teams to implement FAIR data principles.

**Underfill Statement**

For candidates with 2-4 years of experience, this posting may be underfilled at the Intermediate level depending on qualifications.  All candidates are encouraged to apply for consideration.  Salary commensurate with experience.
Additional Information

**Benefits at the University of Michigan**

In addition to a career filled with purpose and opportunity, The University of Michigan offers a comprehensive benefits package to help you stay well, protect yourself and your family and plan for a secure future. Benefits include: 

- Generous time off
- A retirement plan that provides two-for-one matching contributions with immediate vesting
- Many choices for comprehensive health insurance
- Life insurance
- Long-term disability coverage
- Flexible spending accounts for healthcare and dependent care expenses

**Our Commitment**

The Institute for Social Research (ISR) at the University of Michigan seeks to recruit and retain a diverse workforce as a reflection of our commitment to serve the diverse people of Michigan, to maintain the excellence of the university, and to ground our research in varied disciplines, perspectives, and ways of knowing and learning.
U-M EEO/AA Statement

The University of Michigan is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.