+++
title = "Senior Research and Data Curation Manager"
employer = "Stanford University"
employerurl = "https://www.stanford.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careersearch.stanford.edu/jobs/senior-research-and-data-curation-manager-12307"
postdate = "2021-06-04"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
To be successful in this position, you will bring:

- Advanced Degree in Library and Information Science or a relevant academic discipline with demonstrated understanding of academic libraries and at least five years of experience in a relevant library setting, research data management program, an analytics program or data services in a research organization. A post-graduate degree in a related discipline may be required or substituted for a master’s degree in information science. In addition, preference will be given to a candidate with a second Masters or PhD.
- Experience with relevant aspects of library operations including understanding of contemporary library practices, trends and emerging technologies.
- Demonstrated knowledge of issues and technical challenges related to data curation, including privacy and de-identification, format migration, preservation, metadata, discovery, provenance, and data access (including Open Access).
- Demonstrated familiarity with relevant standards for research metadata (e.g., DDI, SDMX, Schema.org, TEI, MODS, etc.) and data management practices and requirements.
- Demonstrated understanding of the broad scope of library operations with ability to understand how their role interacts with the rest of the organization.
- Ability to work effectively in a team environment and negotiate issues with people from different parts of the library.
- Ability to identify challenges and opportunities, engage others in their resolution and recommend appropriate courses of action.
- Demonstrated ability to evaluate online resources in terms of content quality, functionality and user interface issues.
- Ability to independently perform complex job functions such as collection management reviews, preparation of major exhibits, developing policies for business practices.
- Consistent display of strong verbal and written communication skills.
- Demonstrated bibliographic expertise or basic managerial/supervisory skills.
- Demonstrated understanding of the research process as demonstrated by academic or work experience.
- Experience supporting faculty and researchers with Data Management Planning.
- Demonstrated experience managing, analyzing, and otherwise working with research datasets using analytic tools and/or statistical software packages.
- Experience organizing public events and conducting training sessions and workshops.
- Demonstrated initiative in fostering new ideas and implementing change.
- Ability to work independently and collaboratively with researchers and support staff across campus units.
- Experience working on projects that support data-intensive research and ensure high functionality, discoverability, and preservability of digital research.
- Excellent problem-solving and organizational skills; flexibility.
- Evidence of engagement in relevant professional or academic communities.
- Demonstrated experience managing, analyzing, and otherwise working with research datasets using analytic tools and/or statistical software packages.

In addition, our preferred requirements include:

- Masters or Ph.D. in information science, data science, or a related disciplinary field such as Economics or Business.

*Consistent with its obligations under the law, the University will provide reasonable accommodation to any employee with a disability who requires accommodation to perform the essential functions of his or her job.*

Environment:

The Stanford campus sits on over 8000 acres in the heart of California’s Bay Area, one of the most intellectually dynamic and culturally diverse areas of the nation. Palo Alto has a pedestrian and bicycle-friendly town center with an abundance of shopping and dining options, while the urban centers of San Francisco, San Jose, and Oakland are all within a 50-mile radius. Outdoor enthusiasts will find a year-round temperate climate with local hiking trails, redwoods, mountains, the San Francisco Bay, and the Pacific coast all competing for their attention. 

Why Stanford is for You

Stanford’s dedicated 16,000 staff come from diverse educational and career backgrounds. We are a collaborative environment that thrives on innovation and continuous improvement. At Stanford, we seek talent committed to excellence, driven to impact the future of our legacy, and improve lives on a global sphere. We provide competitive salaries, excellent health care and retirement plans, and a generous vacation policy, including additional time off during our winter closure. Our generous perks align with what matters to you:

-  Freedom to grow. Take advantage of career development programs, tuition reimbursement, or audit a course. Join a Ted Talk, film screening, or listen to a renowned author or leader discuss global issues.
- A caring culture. We understand the importance of your personal and family time and provide you access to wellness programs, child-care resources, parent education and consultation, elder care and caregiving support.
- A healthier you. We make wellness a priority by providing access to world-class exercise facilities. Climb our rock wall, or participate in one of hundreds of health or fitness classes.
- Discovery and fun. Visit campus gardens, trails, and museums.
- Enviable resources. We offer free commuter programs and ridesharing incentives. Enjoy discounts for computers, cell phones, recreation, travel, entertainment, and more! 

We pride ourselves in being a culture that encourages and empowers you.