+++
title = "Data Manager, Data Governance & Support Office"
employer = "University of Rochester"
employerurl = "https://rochester.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://ps.its.rochester.edu/psc/PSApplyOnline/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/c/HRS_HRAM_FL.HRS_CG_SEARCH_FL.GBL?Page=HRS_APP_JBPST_FL&Action=U&FOCUS=Applicant&SiteId=1&JobOpeningId=230508&PostingSeq=1"
postdate = "2021-08-04"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
**Responsibilities**

The University is working diligently to formalize and streamline data operations across the various schools, departments, centers, and campuses.  Under the direction of the Chief Data Officer, the Data Manager would be tasked with laying the foundation for master data management at the University.  Initial work would focus on managing data that are currently needed by multiple business lines but are not part of any current business processes.  The successful candidate will help us collect, update, verify, and document data that are needed to be disseminated across the University to increase consistency and decrease risk. We’re looking for an analytical professional who thrives on the opportunity to take tactical steps that contribute to a greater strategic vision. While some technical background or insight is helpful, this role is not a technology role and requires someone who thinks data first.

**Responsibilities:**

- Oversee data collection and data quality for master location data.  Working across the University with the variety of business processes that steward location data, maintain the master location data set to as a complete picture of spaces where University activities take place.
- Maintain the survey data inventory. Meet with survey builders and catalogue data elements, purpose, timing and data collection information. Assist with the coordination, approval, and timing of survey implementation as required.   
- Manage the Business Unit Identifiers for the Nursing Units needed by the UKG Dimensions scheduling platform.  Assist with other ad hoc data collections as requested.
- Help design and collect information for a master people dataset.  Contribute to data model development and business process mapping to ensure to broadest possible usage with documented controls and conditions.

**Desired qualifications:**

- Bachelor’s Degree in Information Science, Computer Science, or a quantitative field with data focus.
- 3+ years’ experience in data management.
- CDMP preferred.
- Experience with relational databases and SQL strongly desired.
- Experience with AWS technologies (Aurora, Athena, Glue) a plus
- Excellent organizational and problems solving skills
- Exceptional communication and collaboration skills a must

**Opening**

Full Time, 40 hours

Grade 052

Provost's Office

Schedule: 8 AM-5 PM

**How To Apply**

All applicants must apply online.