+++
title = "Data Services Specialist"
employer = "Georgia State University"
employerurl = "https://gsu.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://lib.gsu.edu/sciencedatalibrarian"
postdate = "2021-11-19"
archivedate = "2021-12-28"
draft = "false"
+++
Data Services Specialist (Data Science / Data Analytics Focus)
: Library Faculty Position, Atlanta Campus

**Position & Responsibilities**

The Georgia State University Library seeks an intellectually curious and innovative colleague to join us as a Data Services Specialist. If you are passionate about igniting a passion for data in others, this position is for you! This position is part of the growing Research Data Services (RDS) Department of professionals at our highly diverse downtown Atlanta campus with expertise in supporting qualitative and quantitative data collection, analysis, visualization, and management across academic disciplines (details at lib.gsu.edu/data).

We welcome an independent lifelong learner at any stage in their career who is eager to grow new skills and work collaboratively with students and faculty researchers on projects that stretch existing skill sets and abilities. While opportunities to learn on the job will be provided, it is expected that the Data Services 

Specialist will be able to:

- assist university students, staff, and faculty in the use of data science / data analytics software, coding languages, and tools (specifically R and Python);
- support researchers in finding, evaluating, wrangling, cleaning, and analyzing data;
- provide individual and small-group consultations, live workshops, and course-embedded instruction in data information and resource / tool use;
- explore and develop asynchronous virtual learning strategies, including contributing to the GSU Data Ready! Badges digital micro-credentials program (details at lib.gsu.edu/data-ready);
- be committed to working with students at all levels in learning the data literacy tools and skills needed to succeed in college and future careers; and
- collaborate with other members of the Research Data Services Department and outreach librarians in serving a variety of Georgia State University colleges, schools, departments, and programs.

The position serves as a member of the library faculty (non-tenure track), holds faculty rank, and is expected to participate in research, professional development, and service activities as outlined in the University Library’s faculty guidelines. The library is committed to providing exceptional professional development opportunities to its employees.

**Environment**

The University Library, Atlanta Campus, provides one of the most attractive, open, and inviting educational facilities in the Southeast. The Library is a valued partner within the campus community, offering a modern, inviting, and centralized facility supporting both teaching and research with extensive collections and outstanding assistance. Its signature Link, a multilevel glass structure that overlooks downtown Atlanta, connects the Library’s two prominent buildings. CURVE (curve.gsu.edu) brings together students and expert researchers from all disciplines in a shared, hands-on, interactive space featuring cutting-edge hardware and software for data visualization and analysis. For additional information about the Georgia State University Library, visit library.gsu.edu.

Georgia State University, consistently ranked among the most innovative universities by U.S. News & World Report, has one of the fastest growing research profiles in the country and a proven commitment to the success of students from all backgrounds. Georgia State readies students for professional pursuits, educates future leaders, and prepares citizens for lifelong learning. Enrolling one of the most diverse student bodies in the nation at its downtown research campus, at its vibrant branch campuses, and online, the university provides educational opportunities for more than 52,000 students at the graduate, baccalaureate, associate, and certificate levels. For additional information about Georgia State University, visit gsu.edu.

**Required qualifications**

- Master’s degree or higher in a relevant field
- Demonstrated proficiency in R / RStudio
- Demonstrated proficiency in or an ability to become proficient in Python
- Familiarity with data science / data analytics methods commonly used in research across multiple disciplines
- Demonstrated proficiency in or an ability to become proficient in teaching data science / data analytics tools to university researchers across multiple levels and disciplines
- Ability to work effectively within a culturally diverse environment
- Excellent communication, presentation, and interpersonal skills

**Preferred qualifications**

- Experience providing both in-person and online / virtual instruction
- Experience with text mining and text analytics
- Experience with GIS

If you feel that you don’t meet these preferred qualifications, don’t let a confidence gap stop you from applying. Sometimes a list of preferred qualifications can miss the elements that would most strengthen our team; we value the many different skills which make all of us unique.

**Benefits**

Georgia State University offers a comprehensive benefits package that includes health insurance, life insurance, retirement plans, paid time off - vacation, sick, and holidays. This position is eligible for a flexible work schedule. To see what benefits are available, please visit: https://hr.gsu.edu/service-centers/benefits/active-employees/

**Salary and Rank**

Salary range from $60,000-$75,000, dependent on experience, education, and faculty rank. Appointment at faculty rank (Librarian Instructor/Assistant/Associate Professor) is for a 12-month work schedule.

**To Apply**

Please submit: (1) a statement of interest in the position, including addressing the above qualifications;
(2) curriculum vitae; and (3) contact information for three current references c/o the Library’s Human Resources Officer, liblao@gsu.edu, (404) 413-2712.
Review of materials will begin immediately, with complete