+++
title = "Business Librarian"
employer = "American University"
employerurl = "https://www.american.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://apply.interfolio.com/95089"
postdate = "2021-10-01"
archivedate = "2021-10-07"
draft = "false"
+++
American University Library invites applications from innovative, energetic, and service-oriented librarians to fill a continuing appointment faculty position supporting the Kogod School of Business, beginning as soon as possible and subject to budgetary approval.  Rank will be dependent upon experience and stature in the field at either assistant or associate level. 

Responsibilities: As the Research and Instruction Librarian for Business (Business Librarian), the librarian will be the point person for research assistance, information literacy instruction and collection development in support of the curriculum and the faculty research at the Kogod School of Business, as well as business-related research across campus. The Business Librarian will work closely with the faculty and administration of the Kogod School of Business to ensure that the University Library is able to meet their research and pedagogical needs and to increase awareness of library resources.   In collection development, reviews and selects research materials to support faculty and student research for Kogod and actively engages with vendors.  This position provides high-level subject specific reference assistance to Kogod faculty and students, as well as basic research assistance to all students and faculty and teaches subject specific instruction sessions and participates in the baseline information literacy instruction for all students.  The Business Librarian creates appropriate online tools to support Kogod students and faculty and supports interdisciplinary initiatives across academic units that require expertise in business librarianship.  This position serves on library cross-functional teams and participates in decisions that affect the overall research materials collection.  The Business Librarian assists all relevant entities in self-studies and reaccreditation.

The Business Librarian is a member of Research, Teaching and Learning (RTL) and reports to the Associate Director of RTL.  As a member of RTL, the Business Librarian also participates in broader initiatives as part of the library.

Library faculty members participate in university governance activities.  The Business Librarian also consults regularly with the Kogod teaching faculty and administrators.  The Business Librarian actively supports DEI initiatives within the University Library and within Kogod School of Business.  Continuing Appointment library faculty members are expected to contribute to the profession of librarianship, and to participate in campus-wide and library-wide activities.

**Primary duties and responsibilities:**

Provide Information Literacy Instruction

- Support the Kogod School of Business by teaching integrated information literacy sessions within Business disciplines including: Marketing, Finance and Real Estate, Accounting, Business Administration, Management, and Information Technology.
- Work with Kogod Faculty to develop instructional materials for information literacy, e.g. tutorials, course libguides, and rubrics.
- As the liaison to Kogod, work with appropriate committees, administrators and faculty to incorporate information literacy learning objectives and intervention appropriately into the curriculum.
- Teach baseline information literacy skills to Writing Studies classes.
- Participate in departmental information literacy initiatives as a member of RTL, e.g. walk-in workshops, assessment and analysis projects, and pedagogical explorations, other instruction as needed.

Provide Research Support and Outreach Services to the Kogod Community

- Partner with the Kogod community to discover information resources and data through consulting on research projects, providing reference help, facilitating access to online resources, and finding business information resources through individual consultations (in person and online) and through email.
- Support any student or faculty member, regardless of departmental affiliation, with consultations concerning advanced subject specific research requiring business information resources.
- Provide consultations on best practices and resources to accomplish research activities.
- Participate in department-wide services to serving the broader AU community and public with basic research assistance through our in-person Research Assistance Desk or our online Ask a Librarian chat.
- Partner with the Kogod Financial Information Services and Technology Lab to ensure that Kogod students have access to the information resources they need to do their work.
- Participate in outreach programs in person and online.

Curate the Business Collection

- Purchase materials required to support the curriculum of Kogod, the research of the faculty, and the long-term research needs of the university as related to resources related to business.
- Appropriately de-select of cease subscriptions to business information resources in relationship to the budget, the curriculum, the research needs of the faculty, long-term commitments to the regional and national intellectual record, and trends in publishing.
- Serve on the Collection Management Team that oversees the overall university library collection, excepting special collections and archives.

Develop and Manage Web Based Resources

- Develop and maintain web pages related to business information resources and services on the LibGuides platform.
- Consult with stakeholders on any changes to the enterprise systems that impact access to business information resources.

**Service to the Profession**

- Participate in advancing the profession of Librarianship or the academic field of business through original research, relevant service to professional and scholarly societies, publications, and impactful presentations in professional or scholarly venues.

**Service to the University**

- Participate in the shared governance of American University and American University Library through active participation on university and library committees and engagement in work that meaningfully furthers the university and library outside of the primary duties of the position.

Salary: Competitive salary commensurate with qualifications and experience.

Position available: Beginning as soon as possible

Salary: Competitive salary commensurate with qualifications and experience

Position available: Review of applications will begin immediately and will continue until the position is filled.

ABOUT THE KOGOD SCHOOL OF BUSINESS

The Kogod School of Business at American University is the oldest accredited business school in Washington, D.C.  With more than 1500 students, Kogod offers full-time, Professional (part-time) and Online MBA programs, seven specialized Masters of Science degree programs and a robust undergraduate business degree program. All Kogod programs are designed to integrate a business education with a global perspective.  With a focus on Business in the Capital and entrepreneurship through the innovation incubator, Kogod actively connects students with community and facilitates putting their ideas into action.

ABOUT AMERICAN UNIVERSITY LIBRARY

The American University Library www.american.edu/library  serves the AU community through a collection of more than 1,700,000 print and electronic book titles and 180,000 media and sound recordings.   AU Library has affiliate collections at the Washington College of Law and at the Wesley Theological Seminary. The AU Library collection totals over 184,000 journal subscriptions in all subjects.  The Library has 23 library faculty, 87 full-time staff and other professionals and about 62 student assistants. The library's budget is about $17 million. The American University Library is an active member of the Washington Research Library Consortium.

American University Library is a Founding Member of the Diversity Alliance for Academic Libraries. 

American University offers a wide range of undergraduate and graduate programs, many with international focus, to more than 14,000 students.   

For information about American University, please see http://www.american.edu and learn about the University Library at http://www.american.edu/library.

DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION

American University values open and honest inquiry, servant leadership, and the affirmation of the human dignity of all.  American University envisions a thriving community where individuals of all identities and experiences are understood, appreciated, and fully included, and where equitable treatment, opportunities, and outcomes prevail. 

AU’s plan for Inclusive Excellence, adopted in January 2018, reflects the University’s commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion—the cornerstone for achieving institutional and educational excellence.

To learn more about how AU is infusing diversity, equity, and inclusion at a strategic, tactical, and operational level, please visit: https://www.american.edu/president/diversity/inclusive-excellence/index.cfm.

**Qualifications**

- An ALA accredited M.L.S is required.   
- Professional experience in an academic or research institution is highly preferred.
- A degree in business, economics or a related field is highly preferred.  Corporate experience of two or more years in lieu of an academic business background is also acceptable.- 
- Demonstrated reference experience or training is required.
- Pedagogical experience or training is required.
- Collection development experience or instruction is required.
- Evidence of potential for professional contributions and ongoing professional development is essential. 
- Outstanding interpersonal and communication skills; strong public service ethic; and collaborative skills are essential. 
- Ideal candidates will possess the ability to shift priorities in a rapidly changing environment; to work across a broad-based constituency, to communicate a positive library image; and have an awareness of current concerns and developments in librarianship.

**Application Instructions**

This institution is using Interfolio’s ByCommittee to conduct this search.  Applicants to this position receive a free Dossier account and can send all application materials, including confidential letters of recommendation, free of charge. 

For help in signing up, accessing your account, or submitting your application please check out our help and support section or get in touch via email at help@interfolio.com or phone at (877) 997-8807.

**AU Library Diversity Statement**

The AU Library is committed to diversity and inclusion by providing an inclusive, welcoming, and adaptable environment for the community.  The Library recognizes that this is an ongoing process and aims to engage in diversity and inclusion as more than just numeric representation.  The Library will continue to work on intentionally diversifying its personnel, services, and collections in meaningful ways.

American University is an equal opportunity, affirmative action institution that operates in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.  The university does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex (including pregnancy, age, sexual orientation, disability, marital status, personal appearance, gender identify and expression, family responsibilities, political affiliation, source of income, veteran status, an individual’s genetic information or any other bases under federal or local laws (collectively “Protected Bases”) in its programs and activities.  American University is a tobacco and smoke free campus.   
