+++
title = "Assoc Archivist"
employer = "University of Michigan, ICPSR"
employerurl = "https://umich.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.umich.edu/job_detail/195805/assoc_archivist"
postdate = "2021-03-30"
archivedate = "2021-04-07"
draft = "false"
+++
Working Title: ASSOC ARCHIVIST
: Job Title: ASSOC ARCHIVIST
: Work Location: Ann Arbor Campus, Ann Arbor, MI
: Full-Time/Regular
: FLSA Status: Exempt
: Organizational Group: Inst Soc Research
: Department: ICPSR

The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR) is part of the Institute for Social Research (ISR) at the University of Michigan. The consortium maintains the world’s largest archive of social scientific data with 15,000+ studies relating to education, aging, criminal justice, substance abuse, terrorism, and more. A global leader in data science, ICPSR also supports continuing education in research design, statistics, and data analysis. ICPSR employs 20 research faculty, 100 professional staff, and has an annual operating revenue of more than $15 million.

ICPSR’s Metadata and Preservation unit is seeking an Associate Archivist to develop and enhance metadata and lead digital preservation planning. Are you passionate about accurate, precise, and comprehensive metadata to improve resource discovery?  Do you enjoy reviewing and implementing policies and procedures for reliable, long-term access to digital resources?  If so, please apply!

**Responsibilities***

Metadata Standards Enhancement

You will consider ways in which existing ICPSR metadata can be extended and augmented.  For instance, in what ways can ICPSR improve on its use of DDI metadata?  How can ICPSR make use of additional standards, such as DCAT or schema.org?  And how can ICPSR enhance existing preservation metadata?  You will advocate for and assist in implementing these enhancements.

Metadata Standards Development

You will research and implement new metadata standards and policies for new and growing data types at ICPSR (e.g., video, GIS, and social media).

Preservation Planning

You will lead the creation and implementation of digital preservation policies, procedures, workflows, and strategies, especially to support compliance with ISO 14721 (OAIS Reference Model) and ISO 16363 (Audit and Certification of Trustworthy Digital Repositories).

Collaboration

In all of your work, you will develop strong working relationships and communication with staff across ICPSR, including with information technology.  You will work collaboratively with the Assistant Archivist managing metadata reviews; you will report directly to the Unit Director.

**Required Qualifications***

- ALA-accredited Master’s degree.
- 5 years of experience creating, editing, and transforming metadata in a digital repository setting.
- Understanding of and experience with ISO 14721 and ISO 16363.
- Experience curating social science data collections.
- Experience with descriptive cataloging of social science data collections.
- Excellent organizational and project management skills.
- Excellent verbal, written, and interpersonal communication skills in the English language.
- Strong ability to work well in a team-based environment.

**Desired Qualifications***

- Skills in one or more scripting languages for data manipulation (e.g., Python, XSLT).
- Experience using DDI, MARC, Dublin Core, Schema.org, DCAT, and other metadata standards and schema.
- Experience reviewing and implementing new metadata standards and policies.

**Additional Information**

Due to COVID-19 restrictions, this position is currently 100% remote.  We anticipate an eventual return to work in the office when conditions permit.

The Institute for Social Research at the University of Michigan seeks to recruit and retain a diverse workforce as a reflection of our commitment to serve the diverse people of Michigan, to maintain the excellence of the university, and to ground our research in varied disciplines, perspectives, and ways of knowing and learning.

Benefits

In addition to a career filled with purpose and opportunity, U-M offers a comprehensive benefits package to help you stay well, protect yourself and your family, and plan for a secure future. Benefits include generous time off; retirement plan with two-for-one matching contributions after the first year; many choices for comprehensive health insurance; life insurance; long-term disability coverage; and flexible spending accounts for healthcare and dependent care expenses. Learn more about U-M benefits.

Application Deadline

This job opening will be posted for a minimum of fourteen calendar days.  The review and selection process may begin as early as the fifteenth day after posting.  This opening may be removed from posting boards and filled anytime after the minimum posting period has ended.

U-M EEO/AA Statement

The University of Michigan is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.