+++
title = "Data Access Services Manager"
employer = "UK Data Archive"
employerurl = "https://www.essex.ac.uk"
moreinfourl = "https://hrorganiser.essex.ac.uk/tlive_webrecruitment/wrd/run/ETREC107GF.open?VACANCY_ID=568012OBr2&WVID=9918109NEm&LANG=USA"
postdate = "2021-06-22"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++

Job title

- Data Access Services Manager, UK Data Archive 

Application closing date

- 11/07/2021 

Location

- Colchester 

Salary

- £41,527 - £49,553 per annum (pro-rata for part-time) 

Employment type

- Fixed-term, Full-time (Part-time considered) 

Job category/type

- Professional 


**UK Data Archive**

The UK Data Archive is the lead organisation of the UK Data Service, which provides unified access to regional, national and international social and economic data, support for policy-relevant research and guidance and training for the development of skills in data curation and use.

The Department is seeking a data professional who can successfully manage our UK Data Service’s portfolio covering our busy User Helpdesk, supporting data users to find and access our data holdings, and use of our safe haven for research, Secure Lab, that provides controlled access to sensitive data.

**Duties of the Role**

The post will lead two teams of skilled data professionals who deal with activities covering data access and user support; the Data Access team and the User Support and Training team.

The activities cover administering registration and access activities, producing user support materials and web content, statistical output checking, and delivering training for those who are seeking to use, and using, social research data.

You will work with Service Directors to roll out access to business and administrative data under the Digital Economy Act, taking care of safe data protocols and putting into place smooth workflows. You will lead on the Service’s programme of training for Safe Researchers and contribute to other areas of training, working with the Service’s User Support and Training Directorate in Manchester. In addition, you will be expected to represent the Service at various high-level meetings and events.

There is opportunity to publish on a range of methodological areas relating to sensitive data sharing, continuing the decades of productive outputs from the Service. You will also be expected to contribute to funding bids for the UK Data Service in this area.

A full list of duties and responsibilities can be found within the job pack.

**Qualifications and Skills required**

Applicants are required to possess a postgraduate degree or comparable experience in a data-using discipline and a first degree in a social science or statistical-related discipline.

It is essential that you have experience of implementing governance for data coupled with a proven understanding of data privacy and have previously prepared and analysed data and information for management use. In addition, you will have experience of managing quality assurance of an outward-facing service.

You will have proven line management experience and leadership skills to get the best out of your staff. You will need to be a confident and clear speaker, possessing excellent communication and presentation skills, with proven experience of teaching or training researchers.

Experience of drafting and maintaining policies and procedures for research data access processes, and knowledge of metadata standards on social science data publishing would be advantageous.

This post is fixed-term until 30 September 2022, due to the nature of the funding. Whilst this is a full-time post, the department is also able to accept part-time applications from individuals able to work 0.8 FTE (28.8 hours per week) or 0.5 FTE (18 hours per week) on a job share basis.

The role involves access to Government systems, information or data and will be subject to the staff vetting process. Further information can be found in the job pack.

In response to COVID-19, the University has implemented adjusted working arrangements for many staff, with a significant number working remotely. At the time of a job offer, remote and campus working will be discussed and considered on an individual basis, but you will be expected to be based within the UK before the start of your contract.

We are open to discussing flexible working arrangements with the successful candidate in a business as usual context and can discuss this at the time of offer.

At the University of Essex, internationalism and diversity is central to who we are and what we do. We are committed to being a cosmopolitan, internationally oriented university that is welcoming to staff and students from all countries, faiths and backgrounds, where you can find the world in one place.

To support this commitment we have our Global Forum, a staff-led network that promotes and celebrates the rich cultural diversity among Essex staff, and our Colchester campus based Faith Centre, which hosts regular services, meetings and events organised by our chaplains and faith representatives. For more information see: https://www.essex.ac.uk/life/student-facilities/religion-and-faith 

Please see the attached job pack, which contains a full job description and person specification, which outlines the full duties, skills, qualifications and experience needed for this role plus more information relating to the post. We recommend you read this information carefully before making an application. Applications should be made on-line, but if you would like advice or help in making an application, or need information in a different format, please email the Resourcing Team (resourcing@essex.ac.uk).