+++
title = "Department Head, Data and Visualization Services"
employer = "NC State University"
employerurl = "https://www.ncsu.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://www.lib.ncsu.edu/jobs/ehra/department-head-data-visualization-services"
postdate = "2021-05-20"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
The NC State University Libraries invites applications and nominations for the position of Department Head, Data & Visualization Services. The Data & Visualization Services (DVS) department (six librarians and several graduate student Data Science Consultants) helps NC State students, faculty, and staff develop critical data literacy, data analysis, and visualization skills through expert consultations, course-related instruction, workshops, and access to specialized computing resources and software. Department staff provide support for a wide range of data- and visualization-related services, including finding and using datasets, data cleaning and manipulation, quantitative and qualitative data analysis, geospatial analysis and mapping, visualization design, and related software. 

The department manages two service locations, the Hunt Library Dataspace and the Hill Library Data Experience Lab. These community-oriented spaces offer specialized computing, data-focused workshops and events, and a Data Science Consulting service staffed by graduate students with expertise in areas such as statistical programming, machine learning, and data analysis.

**Responsibilities**

The Data & Visualization Services Department was formed in 2018 and has rapidly expanded its service portfolio in response to growing demand for services from the NC State community.  As the university and the Libraries enter the next Strategic Planning cycle, the Department Head, Data & Visualization Services will lead DVS into its next phase of maturity. The Department Head sets departmental goals and objectives, develops proactive services for evolving student and faculty needs, liaises with NC State’s Data Science Academy, and engages in partnerships and initiatives at the university and beyond to support data science and data literacy. As department head, they work closely with colleagues throughout the Libraries, participate in library planning, and serve on Management Council and other library-wide committees, task forces, and teams. Librarians are expected to be active professionally and to contribute to developments in the field. The position reports to the Associate Director for Digital & Organizational Strategy.

**Required Qualifications**

- ALA-accredited MLS, MIS, or other advanced degree relevant to the position. 
- Relevant professional experience, including management and supervision.
- Demonstrated experience developing, delivering, and assessing services related to data literacy, data analysis, or data visualization. 
- Experience fostering a collaborative team environment with a focus on professional growth and development.
- Familiarity with the mission of a research university and of the changing educational environment.
- Experience developing strong collaborative partnerships across departmental and institutional boundaries.
- Demonstrated commitment to fostering an environment of equity, diversity, and inclusion. 
- Excellent teamwork and interpersonal skills; ability to communicate clearly, knowledgeably, and personably, orally and in writing. 
- Evidence of ongoing professional development and contribution.

**Salary and Benefits**

The Libraries offers a highly competitive salary in recognition of applicable education and experience for this position. Librarians have non-tenure track faculty status (without levels of rank). Benefits include:  24 days vacation, 12 days sick leave; State of NC preferred provider medical insurance, and state, TIAA/CREF, or other retirement options. Additional and optional dental, life, disability, deferred compensation, and legal plans are offered. Tuition waiver program for all campuses of The University of North Carolina is available. See the Benefits and Leave Administration page for more information. 
 
**Application Process**

Applications will be reviewed upon receipt; applications will be accepted until finalist candidates are selected. Candidates are encouraged to apply as soon as possible to receive full consideration. The nomination committee may invite candidates for confidential, pre-interview screenings. Appointment requires successful completion of background check. This position is available immediately; start date is negotiable. Applicants must apply through the NC State University online employment website. 