+++
title = "Data Engineer"
employer = "Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis"
employerurl = "https://www.stlouisfed.org/"
moreinfourl = "https://rb.wd5.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/FRS/job/St-Louis-MO/Data-Engineer_R-0000001269"
postdate = "2021-08-09"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis

As a FRED Data Engineer on the FRED Agile team, you will report to the Manager of the Research Datadesk and will work with other data engineers, web developers, and subject matter experts. You will write production-ready Python and SQL code to support the data and metadata pipelines for existing and new data published through FRED and family. This includes the main FRED database, and other web applications such as archival ALFRED and map-based GeoFRED. You will help ensure that the data and metadata in FRED and family are up-to-date, accurate, and accessible.

All Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis employees must be fully vaccinated against COVID-19, unless the Bank grants an accommodation based on a medical condition or sincerely held religious belief.

**Responsibilities**

- Design and maintain databases and interfaces for working with databases;
- Identify data sources, constructing data decomposition diagrams, providing data flow diagrams, and documenting the process;
- Write Python code for database access, modifications, and constructions, including stored procedures;
- Determine and design requirements through discussions with team members, business owners, and other stakeholders;
- Validate data and make mass modifications to the data;
- Build tools with analytics capabilities embedded to move to a more automated system;
- Collaborate with team to ensure appropriate implementation of requirements; and
- Coordinate testing and project activities with and between team members, business owners, and other stakeholders.

**Qualifications**

- Bachelor’s Degree or commensurate experience.
- 1-3+ year’s relevant experience including experience writing production-ready Python code and some combination of the following:
	- Proven ability to meet commitments and deliver quality work in a fast paced environment
	- Experience writing production-ready SQL code
	- Experience with ETL (extract, transform, load) processes
	- Experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS)
	- Experience with PHP
	- SExperience with Agile methodologies
- Candidates with less experience may be considered at a lower job grade or salary.
- All Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis employees must be fully vaccinated against COVID-19, unless the Bank grants an accommodation based on a medical condition or sincerely held religious belief. 

**Benefits**

Our organization offers benefits that are the best fit for you at every stage of your career:

- Pension plan, 401K, Comprehensive Insurance Plans, Tuition Reimbursement Program Onsite Wellness & Fitness Center, Backup Dependent Care (Child & Adult), and more

Ranked as a Top Workplace, the Federal Reserve Bank of St Louis is committed to building an inclusive workplace, where employees’ diversity—in age, gender, race and ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, disability, and cultural traditions, religion, life experiences, education and socioeconomic backgrounds—are recognized as a strength. Embracing our diversity encourages employees to bring their valued perspectives to the table when generating ideas and solving problems, and promotes an environment where innovation and excellence thrive. Learn more about the Bank and its culture; check out our Careers Site.

The Federal Reserve Bank of St Louis is an Equal Opportunity Employer.

Full time / Regular

Job Exempt: Yes

Job Category: Information Technology

Work Shift: First (United States of America)

The Federal Reserve Banks believe that diversity and inclusion among our employees is critical to our success as an organization, and we seek to recruit, develop and retain the most talented people from a diverse candidate pool. The Federal Reserve Banks are committed to equal employment opportunity for employees and job applicants in compliance with applicable law and to an environment where employees are valued for their differences.