+++
title = "Director of Carnegie Mellon Qatar Campus Library"
employer = "Carnegie Mellon University in Qatar"
employerurl = "https://www.vanderbilt.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://apply.interfolio.com/96477"
postdate = "2021-10-26"
archivedate = "2021-12-28"
draft = "false"
+++
Position Title: Director of Carnegie Mellon Qatar Campus Library
: Location: Doha, Other / Non-US, Qatar
: Company Name: Carnegie Mellon University in Qatar
: Library or Company Type: Academic/Research (College/University)
: Job Category: Administration/Management
: Entry Level: No
: Job Type: Full-Time
: Job Duration: Indefinite
: Min Education: Master's Degree
: Min Experience: 5-7 Years

We are seeking an experienced, service-oriented, technically skilled professional who thrives in a creative, agile work environment. The Director will plan and manage all aspects of the CMU-Q library. This includes providing a wide range of services, collections, resources, and spaces to support students, faculty, and staff in the programs offered at the Qatar campus, as well as management of the Qatar campus textbook operation. The Director is responsible for hiring and supervising library personnel, currently including one faculty librarian, three library support staff, and up to three student assistants. The Director also manages the library’s operational budget, including the procurement of print and digital resources specific to the Qatar campus. The Director is expected to serve on library or institutional committees as elected or assigned, and to keep abreast of current developments in library and higher education management through professional development activities.

The Director of the Library is a non-tenure track faculty appointment under Carnegie Mellon’s Policy on Librarian and Archivist Appointments (https://www.cmu.edu/policies/faculty/appointments-librarian-and-archivist.html). The Director will be expected to meet the criteria for reappointment and promotion in the areas of librarianship, scholarship, and service. Faculty rank will be determined at time of appointment. The Director is a member of the Qatar campus Arts and Sciences faculty group and the Pittsburgh campus University Libraries faculty group. This position is a full-time, 12-month position reporting directly to the Dean of the Qatar campus.

Faculty librarians exhibit a responsive, positive, and empathetic orientation toward library users, and display an ability and desire to interact effectively with users from diverse cultural backgrounds. Together with the CMU-Q library team, this position calls for providing reference and research consultation, instruction, and outreach services to the students, faculty, and staff at the campus in Doha. The Library Director is a strong presence on campus; building and maintaining close relationships with CMU-Q community members in order to meet their teaching, learning, research, and publication needs.

As a faculty librarian, you may be called to support a program of information literacy instruction for undergraduate students at CMU-Q. You will build or oversee the building educational resources, as well as design and deliver in-class sessions and workshops.

The Director will guide the Library’s collection development in response to the changing research, teaching, and learning needs of CMU-Q. You will manage the reference services team, and work with vendors to identify, develop, advertise, and train on new library platforms and services.

Essential to this position are a demonstrated commitment to collaboration, to public service, and to teaching, as well as outstanding verbal and written and public presentation communication skills in English. Creativity and attentiveness to interacting with students, faculty, and staff with diverse backgrounds, cultures, and learning styles is essential.

The position offers competitive salaries (commensurate with experience), travel and housing allowances, and other benefit packages, which may include attractive professional development support

Carnegie Mellon University in Qatar is a branch campus that operates in concert with several other American and European branch campuses under the umbrella of the Qatar Foundation’s Education City. The branch campus closely follows the admissions requirements and English-language curriculum of the home campus, which awards all degrees. The several thousand students in Education City are a broad mix of nationalities, but primarily from the Middle East, North Africa, and South Asia. CMU-Q’s faculty is a mix of professionals hired specifically to the campus and seconded faculty from the main campus. CMU-Q’s primary focus is undergraduate education in Business Administration, Biological Sciences, Computer Science, and Information Systems. Our CMU-Q library is part of the CMU University Libraries and shares access to a large collection of databases, e-journals, and e-books, as well as maintaining a smaller local collection of print and digital resources. CMU-Q community members can also borrow materials from other Education City libraries, including the Qatar National Library. In addition to working closely with colleagues at the main campus library in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, CMU-Q librarians maintain close working relationships with librarians at the other American institutions in Qatar Foundation’s Education City – Georgetown University, Northwestern University, Texas A&M University, Virginia Commonwealth University, and Weill Cornell Medicine. Also in Education City is the newly opened Qatar National Library, an architectural marvel with collections and programs that serve the entire population of Qatar.

For more information, please see:

- CMU-Q Library: https://www.library.cmu.edu/qatar
- CMU-Q: www.qatar.cmu.edu
- Qatar National Library: https://www.qnl.qa/en

**Requirements**

Minimum Qualifications:

- ALA-accredited MLS or ALA-recognized international equivalent
- Three to five years’ experience managing library operations and supervising personnel and projects
- Outstanding communication, organizational, and interpersonal skills
- Ability to work positively with diverse constituencies in an environment of rapid change
- Strong commitment to public service
- Ability to plan and implement projects, meet deadlines, and to juggle multiple tasks and priorities
- Ability to effectively negotiate and advocate for the needs of the library in support of the CMU-Q community
- Experience assessing services and materials
- A record of scholarly and creative work sufficient to merit appointment at the Senior Librarian rank or higher.
- This position requires a background check

Preferred Qualifications:

- Second degree or coursework in a related discipline.
- Experience negotiating contracts with library materials vendors and service providers
- Experience managing budgets and expenditures
- Familiarity with library facilities management and operations

**Application Instructions**

To apply, interested candidates should send:

- Letter of Intent
- Curriculum Vitae
- Three letters of reference (Letters will not be requested directly by the Search Committee)
- Diversity Statement that outlines how the candidate has contributed to, or plans to contribute to diversity, inclusion, and equity.
- Other documents: Any additional supporting documentation such as representative professional or scholarly work

Review of applications will begin immediately. For full consideration, applications must be received no later than November 5, 2021.
