+++
title = "Privacy and Security Officer"
employer = "University of Michigan, ICPSR"
employerurl = "https://umich.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.umich.edu/job_detail/196245/privacy_and_security_officer"
postdate = "2021-04-09"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
Working Title: Privacy and Security Officer
: Job Title: Data Security Analyst Lead
: Work Location: Ann Arbor Campus, Ann Arbor, MI
: Full-Time/Regular
: FLSA Status: Exempt
: Organizational Group: Inst Soc Research
: Department: ICPSR - Administration
: Salary: $115,000.00 – $130,000.00 

The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR), at the University of Michigan, is the world's largest archive of digital social science data and is an international consortium of more than 800 academic institutions and research organizations around the world. We provide services and resources to a growing community including students, scholars, policy analysts, policymakers, government officials, and the media.

ICPSR is a great place to build your career with our diverse staff and a collegial atmosphere that fosters communication, collaboration, and new ideas.

We are now accepting applications for a Privacy and Security Officer to lead the development and implementation of a comprehensive program in privacy and IT security. You will report to the ICPSR Associate Director.
Responsibilities*

**You Will:**

- Foster a culture where employees and external data users understand sound data stewardship practices and the importance of reporting any suspected misuses of data.
- Maintain and coordinate an incident reporting protocol in collaboration with the information security team and in accordance with UM policies and practices.
- Lead a Disclosure Review Board that develops and evaluates standards for minimizing disclosure risk in data files and researchers’ statistical output.
- Perform reviews and provide internal consultations to ensure compliance with applicable privacy laws and regulations.
- Be ICPSR’s liaison to the University of Michigan’s Office of General Counsel, Information Assurance Office, and Institutional Review Board.
- Participate in the national data privacy community to disseminate information about ICPSR’s practices and maintain expertise in the field.
- Coordinate the work of staff executing institution-to-institution data use agreements, including drafting and maintaining templates of key types of agreements.
- Ensure that systems for handling sensitive data meet internal business needs and regulatory or sponsor requirements.
- Monitor and adjust ICPSR privacy procedures with regard to University, national, and international standards and best practices.

**Required Qualifications***

- Bachelor’s degree.
- 8+ years of experience working in data privacy and IT security roles.
- Experience leading a team.
- Experience training audiences on data privacy and IT security.
- Experience implementing and engaging in incident response protocols.
- Knowledge of data privacy and IT security laws and regulations relevant to the social and health sciences (such as HIPAA, FISMA, and GDPR).
- Knowledge of key methods for evaluating and mitigating disclosure risk in scientific data.

**Desired Qualifications***

- Law degree (JD or LLM) or advanced degree in IT security.
- Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) or Certified Information Privacy Professional (CIPP).
- 5+ years of experience serving as a Privacy Officer or Information Security Officer.
- Experience leading a disclosure risk mitigation program.
- Experience obtaining Authority to Operate certifications or IT security certifications with government agencies.

**Additional Information**

Benefits at the University of Michigan

In addition to a career filled with purpose and opportunity, The University of Michigan offers a comprehensive benefits package to help you stay well, protect yourself and your family and plan for a secure future. Benefits include:

- Generous time off
- A retirement plan that provides two-for-one matching contributions with immediate vesting
- Many choices for comprehensive health insurance
- Life insurance
- Long-term disability coverage
- Flexible spending accounts for healthcare and dependent care expenses

**Our Commitment**

ICPSR at the University of Michigan seeks to recruit and retain a diverse workforce as a reflection of our commitment to serve the diverse people of Michigan, to maintain the excellence of the university, and to ground our research in varied disciplines, perspectives, and ways of knowing and learning.
U-M EEO/AA Statement

The University of Michigan is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer