+++
title = "Data Project Manager"
employer = "University of Michigan, ICPSR"
employerurl = "https://www.umich.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.umich.edu/job_detail/205164/data_project_manager"
postdate = "2021-10-11"
archivedate = "2021-12-28"
draft = "false"
+++
Working Title: Data Project Manager
: Job Title: Research Area Specialist Inter
: Work Location, Ann Arbor Campus, Ann Arbor, MI
: Full/Regular
: FLSA Status: Exempt
: Organizational Group: Inst Soc Research
: Department: ICPSR - Project Management and Posting
: Begin/End Date: 10/01/2021 – 10/15/2021
: Career Interest:  Research

The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR), the world's largest archive of digital social science data, is now accepting applications for a Data Project Manager to oversee the management of a project to build a new Social, Behavioral, and Economic Research on COVID-19 Consortium Coordinating Center (SBECCC) for COVID-19 related research. Our goal is to expand research and collaboration on SBE research on COVID-19 and address vulnerable populations and health disparities.

You will coordinate and monitor across all tasks, including working with Web and product management staff to develop a new SBECCC website and a database of research projects, activities, and investigators; develop and expand the SBE Research Network; and facilitate COVID-19 data sharing and access.

You will report to Chelsea Samples-Steele, Project Management and User Support Lead.

**Responsibilities***

Project Administration

You will provide administrative and managerial guidance of project activities. This includes ensuring that project deliverables are met on time and on-budget, planning meetings with the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and reporting on project activities.

Website Content Management and Analytics Monitoring

You will work with our Web team and product management unit to develop the new website. After the website is developed, you will keep website content updated and monitor and report website usage data to help evaluate the impact of the website.

Consortium Outreach and Engagement

You will manage all communications and keep track of work across ICPSR and the project partners, with NIH, and within the consortium. You will set meetings, develop agendas, and provide notes for work with NIH, within the center, and across all working groups that form throughout the consortium. You will also support the dissemination of research advances, activities, and resources from the SBE Consortium to researchers, policymakers, and other stakeholders. This includes coordinating the creation of research briefs, webinars, infographics, and other communication vehicles.

Data Acquisitions and Management of Confidential Data

You will expand access to SBE research on COVID-19 by making sure data are discoverable through the website. This includes supporting the use of Common Data Elements (CDEs) across the consortium and developing a metadata portal to support discovery and access to SBE research on COVID-19. You'll also encourage researchers to make their data available, including making them aware of available options. When data require sensitive handling, you'll ensure adherence with policies for handling confidential data.

Please note that some travel (~10%) is required.

**Required Qualifications***

- Bachelor's degree in social science, information science, or related field
- 4+ years (2-3 years for Associate level) experience related to the responsibilities of the position
- Knowledge of current issues related to managing, sharing, and reusing data
- Experience with statistical applications such as SAS, SPSS, R, etc.

**Desired Qualifications***

- Master's degree in social science, information science, or related field
- Experience with social and behavioral health research and data
- Knowledge of confidentiality, disclosure, and related issues regarding the distribution of social science data
- Experience using and interpreting Google Analytics data
- Experience in a research setting including a data archive or academic library
- Experience assisting in the dissemination of research findings

**Underfill Statement**

This posting may be filled at the Intermediate or Associate level, depending on qualifications.

**Additional Information**

ICPSR, part of the Institute for Social Research (ISR) at the University of Michigan, seeks to recruit and retain a diverse workforce as a reflection of our commitment to serve the diverse people of Michigan, to maintain the excellence of the university, and to ground our research in varied disciplines, perspectives, and ways of knowing and learning.

Benefits

In addition to a career filled with purpose and opportunity, U-M offers a comprehensive benefits package to help you stay well, protect yourself and your family, and plan for a secure future. Benefits include generous time off; retirement plan with two-for-one matching contributions after the first year; many choices for comprehensive health insurance; life insurance; long-term disability coverage; and flexible spending accounts for healthcare and dependent care expenses.Learn more about U-M benefits.

**Application Deadline**

Job openings are posted for a minimum of seven calendar days.  The review and selection process may begin as early as the eighth day after posting. This opening may be removed from posting boards and filled anytime after the minimum posting period has ended.

**U-M EEO/AA Statement**

The University of Michigan is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.

U-M COVID-19 Vaccination Policy

COVID-19 vaccinations are now required for all University of Michigan students, faculty and staff across all three campuses, including Michigan Medicine.  This includes those working or learning remotely.  More information on this policy is available on the Campus Blueprint website or the U-M Dearborn and U-M Flint websites.