+++
title = "Head, Research Data Services"
employer = "University of Pennsylvania"
employerurl = "https://upenn.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://wd1.myworkdaysite.com/en-US/recruiting/upenn/careers-at-penn/job/Van-Pelt-Library/HEAD--RESEARCH-DATA-SERVICES_JR00037746"
postdate = "2021-08-12"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
**University Overview**

The University of Pennsylvania, the largest private employer in Philadelphia, is a world-renowned leader in education, research, and innovation. This historic, Ivy League school consistently ranks among the top 10 universities in the annual U.S. News & World Report survey. Penn has 12 highly-regarded schools that provide opportunities for undergraduate, graduate and continuing education, all influenced by Penn’s distinctive interdisciplinary approach to scholarship and learning.

Penn offers a unique working environment within the city of Philadelphia. The University is situated on a beautiful urban campus, with easy access to a range of educational, cultural, and recreational activities. With its historical significance and landmarks, lively cultural offerings, and wide variety of atmospheres, Philadelphia is the perfect place to call home for work and play.

The University offers a competitive benefits package that includes excellent healthcare and tuition benefits for employees and their families, generous retirement benefits, a wide variety of professional development opportunities, supportive work and family benefits, a wealth of health and wellness programs and resources, and much more.

Posted Job Title
: HEAD, RESEARCH DATA SERVICES

Job Profile Title
: Librarian C

**Job Description Summary**

Reporting to the Assistant University Librarian for Research Data and Digital Scholarship, the Head, Research Data Services will design, develop, and implement the Libraries’ developing research and scholarship support services for Penn community members who need to identify, curate, work with, manage, visualize, publish, or and share data, or who have an interest in open science.

**Job Description**

In collaboration with the Research Data and Digital Scholarship team and disciplinary specialists, they will develop and deliver forward-thinking, measureable, campus-aligned programming to support researchers at every stage of the data lifecycle; scaffold scalable education and outreach programming and support for graduate students, postdoctoral scholars, and faculty; and coordinate project support for data-intensive research. They will assist Penn researchers in meeting the data management and open data requirements of funding agencies and publishers. They will prioritize the development of strong, collaborative relationships with library subject specialists in data-heavy disciplines and with relevant offices, departments, and centers across campus. The incumbent will manage a small team of specialists focused on data management, spatial data and GIS, open science, data science, and data visualization.

**QUALIFICATIONS:**

- An advanced degree (master’s or above) in a relevant data-intensive discipline or in library science
- In-depth knowledge of the data lifecycle across a range of data types
- Demonstrated knowledge of the evolving landscape of open and public data, data ethics, and data sharing
- Background that demonstrates proficiency with (and, preferably, experience teaching) quantitative and qualitative software for working with data
- Experience developing and implementing a research data services program
- Demonstrated data management planning experience
- Experience building and maintaining cross-campus connections and initiatives
- Collaborative work ethic
- Excellent communication skills
- Commitment to anti-racist, inclusive, ethical praxis

**Preferred:**

- Supervisory experience
- Demonstrated interest in FAIR data and the role of data in open knowledge production
- Proficiency working with geospatial data
- Familiarity with data visualization tools, trends, and techniques
- Advanced degree in the sciences or social sciences

*** REQUIRED*** Please provide a resume and cover letter for consideration. Please upload all documents in the “Resume/CV” section of the application prior to submitting. 

Job Location - City, State
: Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Department / School
: University Library

Pay Range
: $50,684.00 - $91,232.00

Affirmative Action Statement 
:Penn adheres to a policy that prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, creed, national or ethnic origin, citizenship status, age, disability, veteran status, or any other legally protected class.

Special Requirements 
:Background check required after a conditional job offer is made. Consideration of the background check will be tailored to the requirements of the job.

**University Benefits**

- Health, Life, and Flexible Spending Accounts: Penn offers comprehensive medical, prescription, behavioral health, dental, vision, and life insurance benefits to protect you and your family’s health and welfare. You can also use flexible spending accounts to pay for eligible health care and dependent care expenses with pre-tax dollars.

- Tuition: Take advantage of Penn's exceptional tuition benefits. You, your spouse, and your dependent children can get tuition assistance here at Penn. Your dependent children are also eligible for tuition assistance at other institutions.

- Retirement: Penn offers generous retirement plans to help you save for your future. Penn’s Basic, Matching, and Supplemental retirement plans allow you to save for retirement on a pre-tax or Roth basis. Choose from a wide variety of investment options through TIAA and Vanguard.

- Time Away from Work: Penn provides you with a substantial amount of time away from work during the course of the year. This allows you to relax, take vacations, attend to personal affairs, recover from illness or injury, spend time with family—whatever your personal needs may be.

- Long-Term Care Insurance: In partnership with Genworth Financial, Penn offers faculty and staff (and your eligible family members) long-term care insurance to help you cover some of the costs of long-term care services received at home, in the community or in a nursing facility. If you apply when you’re newly hired, you won’t have to provide proof of good health or be subject to underwriting requirements. Eligible family members must always provide proof of good health and are subject to underwriting.

- Wellness and Work-life Resources: Penn is committed to supporting our faculty and staff as they balance the competing demands of work and personal life. That’s why we offer a wide variety of programs and resources to help you care for your health, your family, and your work-life balance.

- Professional and Personal Development: Penn provides an array of resources to help you advance yourself personally and professionally.

- University Resources: As a member of the Penn community, you have access to a wide range of University resources as well as cultural and recreational activities. Take advantage of the University’s libraries and athletic facilities, or visit our arboretum and art galleries. There’s always something going on at Penn, whether it’s a new exhibit at the Penn Museum, the latest music or theater presentation at the Annenberg Center, or the Penn Relays at Franklin Field to name just a few examples. As a member of the Penn community, you’re right in the middle of the excitement—and you and your family can enjoy many of these activities for free.

- Discounts and Special Services: From arts and entertainment to transportation and mortgages, you'll find great deals for University faculty and staff. Not only do Penn arts and cultural centers and museums offer free and discounted admission and memberships to faculty and staff. You can also enjoy substantial savings on other goods and services such as new cars from Ford and General Motors, cellular phone service plans, movie tickets, and admission to theme parks.

- Flexible Work Hours: Flexible work options offer creative approaches for completing work while promoting balance between work and personal commitments. These approaches involve use of non-traditional work hours, locations, and/or job structures.

- Penn Home Ownership Services: Penn offers a forgivable loan for eligible employees interested in buying a home or currently residing in West Philadelphia, which can be used for closing costs or home improvements.

- Adoption Assistance: Penn will reimburse eligible employees on qualified expenses in connection with the legal adoption of an eligible child, such as travel or court fees, for up to two adoptions in your household.

​To learn more, please visit: https://www.hr.upenn.edu/PennHR/benefits-pay 