+++
title = "Research Data Engineert"
employer = "University of Pennsylvania"
employerurl = "https://www.upenn.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://bit.ly/rdds-engineer"
postdate = "2021-11-23"
archivedate = "2021-12-28"
draft = "false"
+++
The Research Data Engineer is a member of the Research Data and Digital Scholarship (RDDS) team at the University of Pennsylvania Libraries. Reporting to the Head, Research Data Services, and working alongside RDDS colleagues with expertise in data science, scholarly communication, text mining, design, digital cultural heritage, data visualization, and mapping, they will provide support to research teams, faculty, and students across campus on issues such as data management; data analysis; data literacy; data sharing, and compliance with funder and publisher mandates. The goal of the research data engineer is to help Penn community members better manage their research process so that they can (a) find, curate, and analyze data for their research; (b) effectively and efficiently conduct their research using digital tools and infrastructure and (c) produce well-documented, funder-compliant, and FAIR (findable, accessible, interoperable, and reusable) data, code, and publications.

- With the guidance of the Head, Research Data Services and in collaboration with research support offices on campus, implement a service program that helps researchers manage the various aspects of the research data lifecycle in ways that prioritize FAIR data, ethical data gathering and processing, and reproducible research.
- Work with subject specialists, campus centers, and faculty to provide disciplinary-specific training opportunities, resources, and consultations in data literacy, research data management, data sharing, and working with quantitative and qualitative research data to the Penn community.
- In collaboration with subject specialists, provide training opportunities, resources, and consultations for researchers on tools, infrastructure, and best practices to improve research workflows at various stages of the research lifecycle.
- Stay current on changes to public and open access policy requirements and conversations about emerging infrastructure to support the publication and sharing of data and communicate these changes to research teams and researchers.
- Actively participate in local, regional, and national conversations about open science and research data management.

All Research Data and Digital Scholarship team members are expected and encouraged to dedicate one half-day a week to collaborative, creative, research, or professional development activities.

The RDDS team values collaboration, transparency, equity, openness, and accessibility in their work and is looking for colleagues who share their commitment to an inclusive, ethical, anti-racist praxis.