+++
title = "Librarian for Economics"
employer = "Vanderbilt University"
employerurl = "https://www.vanderbilt.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://ecsr.fa.us2.oraclecloud.com/hcmUI/CandidateExperience/en/sites/CX/requisitions/job/10000493"
postdate = "2021-06-05"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
Job Category: Library & Museum Services
Locations: Nashville, TN, United States
Degree Level: Master's Degree
Job Schedule: Full time
Job Shift: Day 

Vanderbilt University Libraries seek an Economics Librarian to provide subject and digital scholarship expertise to faculty and students. We are looking for a dynamic information specialist who can develop and foster relationships with members of the Vanderbilt community. This will be done through active and systematic engagement with faculty and students in their offices, departments, and classrooms. The Librarian for Economics provides research and teaching support to faculty and students in the Vanderbilt School of Arts & Sciences.

The Jean and Alexander Heard Libraries are fundamental to the university’s goal of advancing scholarship and learning. We collect, preserve, and make accessible a wide variety of resources. We partner with faculty and students to shape research, and we encourage the development of informed scholars and engaged citizens.

**Duties and Responsiblities**

- Provides expert, in-depth reference, consultation, and information services to the Vanderbilt University community. Specifically, the department of Economics.
- Actively engage with the faculty and students in their classroooms, offices, and commons to bring information science and expertise to faculty and students where they work.
- Develops programs to provide expert research support at all stages of the research life cycle.
- Teaches workshops on economics data use and analysis as well as specialized software and resource applications.
- Helps build and deliver an information literacy program that is integrated into the economics curriculum.
- Manages the economics resources and collections.
- Develop and deliver innovative consultation services drawing on established and emerging computational research methods.
- Identify and develop outreach and engagement events that are aligned with campus strategic initiatives.
- Represent the library locally, regionally, and nationally.
- Knowledge of current research practices in economics.
- Actively contribute to the information science profession in the area of economics and social science librarianship.
- Serve as a key member of the Digital Commons (1101 19th Avenue) outreach team.

**Qualifications**

- Master’s Degree in Library and Information Science from an ALA accredited institution is required.
- Additional degree in related discipline is preferred.
- 2-5 years’ experience in an academic research library is required.
- Outstanding communication skills and a demonstrated ability to effectively teach and present.
- Knowledge and or interest in using emerging technologies to enhance the delivery of information services.
- Demonstrated ability to work independently and collaboratively on teams.
- Ability to manage multiple priorities in a fast-paced and changing environment.
- Knowledge of current research practices in economics.
- Demonstrated ability in tools that support the following aspects of research:
	-Bibliometrics (e.g., Bibliometrix, CiteSpace, ORCHID, Scholia, SPARQL, R, Python)
	- Data Curation (e.g., Python, R, web scraping)
	- Network Analysis (e.g., Gephi, Neo4j, Cytoscape)
	- Open Access Publishing (e.g., arXiv, bepress, DOIs, DSpace, Open Journal Systems, SSRN, VIAF)

At the hiring manager's request, it is strongly preferred that all applicants include a cover letter and resume/CV as part of their application materials when applying for this position.

**Commitment to Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion**

At Vanderbilt University, we are intentional about and assume accountability for fostering advancement and respect for equity, diversity, and inclusion for all students, faculty, and staff. Our commitment to diversity makes us who we are.  We have created a community that celebrates differences and lets individuality thrive. As part of this commitment, we actively value diversity in our workplace and learning environments as we seek to take advantage of the rich backgrounds and abilities of everyone. The diverse voices of Vanderbilt represent an invaluable resource for the University in its efforts to fulfill its mission and strive to be an example of excellence in higher education.

Vanderbilt University is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. Women, minorities, people with disabilities, and protected veterans are encouraged to apply.

Please note, all candidates selected for an offer of employment are subject to pre-employment background checks, which may include but are not limited to, based on the role for which they have been selected: criminal history, education verification, social media review, motor vehicle records, credit history, and professional license verification.
