+++
title = "Librarian for Business and Management"
employer = "Yale University"
employerurl = "https://www.yale.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://sjobs.brassring.com/TGnewUI/Search/home/HomeWithPreLoad?partnerid=25053&siteid=5248&PageType=JobDetails&jobid=1474475#jobDetails=1474475_5248"
postdate = "2021-08-30"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
University Job Title
: Librarian, Research Support

Bargaining Unit
: None - Not included in the union (Yale Union Group)

Type
: Full time/Regular

Compensation Grade Profile
: Librarian (00)

Work Location
: University Library System

Worksite Address
: New Haven, CT

Work Week
: Standard (M-F equal number of hours per day)

Total # of hours to be worked
: 37.5

**Position Focus:**

In an increasingly interdisciplinary environment, the Librarian for Business and Management is a user-centered and creative individual who is a core member of the Business and Management Librarian Team along with another Business and Management Librarian. Together, the team provides research support, instruction, and outreach to a diverse community in a fast-paced environment across the Yale School of Management (SOM) and Yale University, including:

- Graduate students, faculty, and staff at SOM.
- In collaboration with other subject specialists, students enrolled in joint-degree programs with other Yale schools, including Yale Law School, School of the Environment, School of Public Health, and the recently launched Yale Jackson School of Global Affairs.
- Offices and departments focused on student services, including the SOM Career Development Office and SOM Academic Affairs and Student Life.
- Campus entrepreneurship and innovation centers and programs.
- Other university business and administrative offices reliant on business and management information.

Using a shared, user-focused workflow emphasizing efficiency, responsiveness and adaptability, this librarian, as part of the Business and Management Librarian Team, conducts research consultations; offers curriculum-integrated instruction and workshops; supports the discovery, use, and management of text and data; raises awareness of resources and services through outreach efforts such as department-based office hours and social media; and creates and maintains research guides and other research support tools.

Working closely with the Marx Library Director of Collection Management, Technical Services, and Access Services, the person in this role facilitates access to the collections of a complex, multi-faceted research/academic library through selecting, reviewing, advocating for, and promoting a variety of resources in support of business and management related research. The Business and Management Librarian Team collaborates with the Data Librarian and other library and campus partners to advise on scalable, sustainable, and domain-appropriate data services in support of research and teaching at Yale. The incumbent will participate in collection development activities, including managing collections funds, evaluating approval plans, and maintaining collection development statements in assigned subject areas.

The Librarian for Business and Management participates in outreach and research/instruction program planning and implementation for Marx Library; participates in Yale Library planning, committees, and task forces; and engages in campus, regional, and national organizations and collaborative activities. This individual is expected to participate in professional activities outside of Yale and to monitor developments and best practices elsewhere to help ensure the excellence of Yale’s research support services and collections.

Reporting to the Marx Library Director of Research Support and Outreach Programs, this position will be assigned a rank of Librarian 2 or 3. Librarian ranks and promotion policies can be found at http://bit.ly/YULRanksPromotions.

**Essential Duties**

1. Provides research support to students and faculty in academic departments, schools, and research centers through consultations, instruction sessions, and in-person and virtual reference services. Supports research and raises awareness of information resources through outreach efforts such as department-based office hours, blogs, RSS feeds, mailing list messages, and workshops. 
2. Creates and maintains online guides and other research support tools. Collaborates with librarians, GIS specialists, archivists and other providers of information resources to support research and teaching. 
3. Develops library collections in all formats. Works closely with the Director of Collection Development, collection, acquisitions and cataloging librarians, and staff on acquiring and receiving resources in all formats (print, databases, datasets, images, a/v, etc.) and preparing them for availability to users. 
4. Participates in departmental library research support and collections program planning. 
5. Participates in library system-wide planning, committees, and work groups, and engages in campus, regional and national professional organizations and collaborative activities. Monitors developments and best practices elsewhere to help ensure the excellence of Yale’s collections and research support services. 
6. May be required to assist with disaster recovery efforts. 
7. May perform other duties as assigned.

**Required Education and Experience**

1. Master’s degree from an ALA-accredited library school. In selected instances, a post-graduate degree in a related discipline may be required or substituted for a master’s degree in library science. 
2. Demonstrated excellent oral, written, and interpersonal communications and analytical ability. 
3. Demonstrated record of designing projects and bringing them to a conclusion in a timely fashion. 
4. Experience working collegially and cooperatively within and across organizations. 
5. Experience working collaboratively and independently with varied groups within a complex organization and rapidly changing, team environment. Yale University assigns ranks to librarian positions based on a combination of professional experience and accomplishments (see range assigned to this description as noted in the posting position title). Librarian ranking information can be found at: http://www.library.yale.edu/about/departments/lhr/rank.html

**Required Skill/Ability 1:**

Minimum of two years professional experience.

**Required Skill/Ability 2:**

Demonstrated ability to provide high quality, user-centered services, preferably in an academic library setting.

**Required Skill/Ability 3:**

Demonstrated ability to identify, search, and instruct researchers in the use of business and management electronic resources.

**Required Skill/Ability 4:**

Demonstrated ability to find and use economic, financial, or other numeric data to support interdisciplinary research.

**Preferred Education, Experience and Skills:**

Degree in economics, finance, business, or a related subject. Experience in supporting a graduate MBA or related professional business school program. Demonstrated experience with business and management resources in all formats. Experience with data visualization tools. Experience with international business resources. Experience with collection development in an academic environment.

**Background Check Requirements**

All candidates for employment will be subject to pre-employment background screening for this position, which may include motor vehicle, DOT certification, drug testing and credit checks based on the position description and job requirements. All offers are contingent upon the successful completion of the background check. Please visit www.yale.edu/hronline/careers/screening/faqs.html for additional information on the background check requirements and process.

**COVID-19 Vaccine Requirement**

Please note that the university has a COVID vaccination requirement; visit for details. For up-to-date information visit COVID-19 website

**Affirmative Action Statement:**

Yale University considers applicants for employment without regard to, and does not discriminate on the basis of, an individual’s sex, race, color, religion, age, disability, status as a veteran, or national or ethnic origin; nor does Yale discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity or expression. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from sex discrimination in educational programs and activities at institutions that receive federal financial assistance. Questions regarding Title IX may be referred to the University’s Title IX Coordinator, at TitleIX@yale.edu, or to the U.S. Department of Education, Office for Civil Rights, 8th Floor, Five Post Office Square, Boston MA 02109-3921. Telephone: 617.289.0111, Fax: 617.289.0150, TDD: 800.877.8339, or Email: ocr.boston@ed.gov.

Note

Yale University is a tobacco-free campus 