+++
title = "Data Services Specialist"
employer = "Georgia State University Library"
employerurl = "https://www.gsu.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://library.gsu.edu/about/employment/"
postdate = "2021-03-23"
archivedate = "2021-03-24"
draft = "false"
+++



Position  
The Georgia State University Library seeks an intellectually curious and innovative colleague to join us as a Data Services Specialist. The Data Services Specialist is part of a growing team of professionals at our downtown Atlanta campus with expertise to support qualitative and quantitative data collection, analysis, visualization, and management across academic disciplines (details at library.gsu.edu/data).

Responsibilities  
The Data Services Specialist will assist the university community in the use of statistical software for analyzing quantitative data. As an extension of this work, the Data Services Specialist will support researchers in finding, evaluating, analyzing, and managing data. We are specifically interested in candidates who are ready, or can quickly become ready, to provide support and instruction to students and researchers in using at least two of the following tools: SAS, SPSS, and/or Stata.  
The Data Services Specialist will provide individual and small-group consultations, workshops, and course-embedded instruction in  data information and resource use, have a strong commitment to student learning and success, and collaborate with our team of subject librarians serving a variety of GSU colleges and programs. We welcome a data professional who is eager to work with students at all levels in learning the tools and skills needed to succeed in college and career, is committed to the promotion of data literacy in higher education, and is prepared to work with faculty members to support their data-related research needs. Additional duties (up to 10% of work commitment) may be assigned to this position based on the candidate’s background, experience, and interests.   
On-site training opportunities and funding for travel and professional development will be provided. The position serves as a member of the library faculty (12-month, non-tenure track), holds faculty rank, and is expected to participate in research, professional development, and service activities as outlined in the University Library’s faculty guidelines.

Environment  
The University Library, Atlanta Campus is a valued partner within the campus community and offers a modern, inviting, and centralized facility supporting both teaching and research with extensive collections and outstanding assistance. The CURVE (curve.gsu.edu), located in Library South, brings together students and expert researchers from all disciplines in a shared, hands-on, interactive space featuring cutting-edge hardware and software for data visualization and analysis. For additional information about the Georgia State University Library, visit library.gsu.edu.  
Georgia State University, consistently ranked among the top 3 Most Innovative Universities by U.S. News & World Report, has one of the fastest growing research profiles in the country and a proven commitment to the success of students from all backgrounds. Georgia State readies students for professional pursuits, educates future leaders, and prepares citizens for lifelong learning. Enrolling one of the most diverse student bodies in the nation at its downtown research campus, at its vibrant branch campuses, and online, the university provides educational opportunities for more than 54,000 students at the graduate, baccalaureate, associate and certificate levels. For additional information about Georgia State University, visit gsu.edu.  

Required qualifications
•Master’s degree or higher in a relevant field  
•Background or experience that demonstrates current proficiency or an ability to become proficient in two or more of the following: SAS, SPSS, or Stata  
•Familiarity with the statistical methods and software tools commonly used in quantitative research across multiple disciplines  
•Background or experience that demonstrates current proficiency or an ability to become proficient in teaching university researchers across all levels how to work with quantitative data using statistical analysis software  
•Background or experience that demonstrates current proficiency or an ability to become proficient in helping individuals troubleshoot technical problems and overcome barriers to using data analysis software  
•Ability to identify and articulate the ever-changing support needs of university students and faculty who are engaged in data-driven research  
•Understanding of the rapidly changing role of the academic library and librarian in higher education, e.g. data services and support provided by the library   
•Ability to work effectively with culturally diverse library users and colleagues•Excellent communication, presentation, and interpersonal skills  

Preferred qualifications  
•Doctoral degree (social science preferred)  
•Demonstrated experience using SAS, SPSS, Stata, or other tools for either quantitative or qualitative data collection, analysis, visualization, or management  
•Demonstrated experience providing instruction in one-on  -one, small group, or classroom settings  

Condition of Work and Benefits  
Twelve-month assignment  
Faculty rank and status  
Non-tenure track  
Health and retirement benefits  
Support for research and professional activities  

Salary and Rank   
Salary range from $55,000 to $70,000, commensurate with the candidate’s education and experience. Appointment at faculty rank (Instructor/Assistant/Associate Professor) on a 12-month contract renewal basis.

Apply
Please submit: (1) a statement of interest addressing the above qualifications; (2) curriculum vitae; and (3) contact information for three current references c/o the Library’s Human Resources Officer, liblao@gsu.edu, (404) 413-2712.

Review of materials will begin immediately, with complete applications received by April 23, 2021, receiving full consideration. Any offer of employment at Georgia State University is contingent upon successful completion of a criminal background investigation. Georgia State University is an Equal Opportunity Employer and does not discriminate against applicants due to race, ethnicity, gender, veteran status, or on the basis of disability or any other federal, state or local protected class.
