+++
title = "Data Curator"
employer = "Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research"
employerurl = "https://www.umich.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.umich.edu/job_detail/195431/data_curator"
postdate = "2021-03-23"
archivedate = "2021-03-24"
draft = "false"
+++



How to Apply

To apply for this position, please include a copy of your resume and a cover letter as one document, with your cover letter as the first page. Your cover letter should specifically outline the reasons for your interest in the position, and your qualifications directly related to this position.

Job Summary

The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR), the world's largest archive of social science data, is now accepting applications for Data Curators. Data Curators develop functional understanding of research studies using deposited data and documentation and translate to secondary researchers through the creation of summary descriptions, metadata and other study documents.

We have a diverse staff with varying skills and experiences, and a collegial atmosphere that fosters communication and networking. The Data Curator reports to the Data Curation Supervisor.

 You will prepare social science research data and related materials for permanent archiving and sharing:

    Review data for issues related to respondent confidentiality;
    Use SPSS, SAS or Stata to review, clean, and recode data;
    Compile and edit documentation;
    Structure data and documentation files into ICPSR archival products for release and cataloging;
    Write study-level metadata descriptions;
    Prepare data and documentation for use with online data analysis tools;
    Perform quality control reviews and error-checking for data and documentation.

You will communicate with staff and external partners:

    Communicate with ICPSR staff in other units, data producers, and depositors to resolve issues;
    Communicate project status and discuss priorities with your supervisor;
    Provide feedback to other staff in the unit on quality control reviews.

 
Required Qualifications*

    Bachelor’s degree in social science or a related field;
    Knowledge of social science research methods and survey design;
    1+ year(s) of work experience or 1 semester of educational experience cleaning, recoding, merging or subsetting data, or other data management tasks, and performing descriptive statistical procedures;
    1+ year(s) of experience or 1 semester of educational experience with any of the following programs: SAS, SPSS (PSPP), Stata, R, SQL, Excel (for data management, e.g., can perform complex functions, can write advanced macros);
    Experience reading and summarizing technical documents;
    Experience organizing and prioritizing assignments, and applying oral and written instructions and procedures.

Additional Information

Due to COVID-19 restrictions, this position is currently 100% remote. We anticipate an eventual return to work in the office when conditions permit.

Work Schedule

Monday-Friday, days. We offer flexibility with work hours and work-life balance.

Benefits

In addition to a career filled with purpose and opportunity, The University of Michigan offers a comprehensive benefits package to help you stay well, protect yourself, and your family and plan for a secure future. Benefits include:

    Generous time off;
    A retirement plan that provides two-for-one matching contributions with immediate vesting;
    Many choices for comprehensive health insurance;
    Life insurance;
    Long-term disability coverage;
    Flexible spending accounts for healthcare and dependent care expenses.

The Institute for Social Research (ISR) at the University of Michigan seeks to recruit and retain a diverse workforce as a reflection of our commitment to serve the diverse people of Michigan, to maintain the excellence of the university, and to ground our research in varied disciplines, perspectives, and ways of knowing and learning.

 
U-M EEO/AA Statement

The University of Michigan is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.




Job Opening ID
195431
Working Title
Data Curator
Job Title
Research Technician Senior
Work Location
Ann Arbor Campus
Ann Arbor, MI
Full/Part Time
Full-Time
Regular/Temporary
Regular
FLSA Status
Nonexempt
Organizational Group
Inst Soc Research
Department
ICPSR - Curation
Posting Begin/End Date
3/16/2021 – 3/30/2021
Salary
$38,000.00 – $38,000.00
Career Interest
Research
