+++
title = "Science and Data Visualization Librarian"
employer = "Georgia State University"
employerurl = "https://www.gsu.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://library.gsu.edu/files/2021/08/Science-and-Visual-Librarian-Job-Ad-Fall-2021.pdf"
postdate = "2021-08-18"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
**Library Faculty Position, Atlanta Campus**

**Position & Responsibilities**

Georgia State University, consistently ranked among the most innovative universities by U.S. News & World Report, has one of the fastest growing research profiles in the country and a proven commitment to the success of students from all backgrounds. 
The University Library is hiring a forward-thinking and collegial librarian to support key areas of research, teaching, and learning across the university, with a particular focus on:  

- Biology 
- Chemistry 
- Geosciences 
- Mathematics & Statistics 
- Physics & Astronomy 
- Other areas as identified by need and background  

This librarian will also support data visualization efforts by students and faculty across the university, with a particular focus on Tableau support across disciplines. Data visualization is an identified area of growth for this position and training will be available. A desire to learn new skills and explore new areas of expertise is highly valued.

Interested persons from any stage of their career are invited to apply and training opportunities will be identified and provided as needed. Working closely with assigned departments and programs in a collaborative and team-based environment, the Science & Data Visualization librarian will provide individual and small-group consultations, workshops, and instruction in information, resource, and software use. Librarians at GSU have a strong commitment to student learning and success and are expected to collaborate with library and campus colleagues serving the wide variety of colleges and programs.

We welcome information professionals eager to partner with faculty in their research and teaching and work with students at all levels in learning the information tools and skills needed to succeed in college and career. The position serves as a member of the library faculty (12-month, non-tenure track), holds faculty rank, and is expected to participate in research, professional development, and service activities as outlined in the University Library’s faculty guidelines. The library is committed to providing exceptional professional development opportunities to its employees 

**Environment**

The University Library, Atlanta Campus, provides one of the most attractive, open, and inviting educational facilities in the Southeast. With over 1.5 million annual visitors in 2019, the Library is an integral part of the University community. The Library is a valued partner within the campus community, offering a modern, inviting, and centralized facility supporting both teaching and research with extensive collections and outstanding assistance. Its signature Link, a multilevel glass structure that overlooks downtown Atlanta, connects the Library’s two prominent buildings. CURVE (curve.gsu.edu), located in Library South, brings together students and expert researchers from all disciplines in a shared, hands-on, interactive space featuring cutting-edge hardware and software for data visualization and analysis. For additional information about the Georgia State University Library, visit library.gsu.edu.

Georgia State University, an innovative urban public research university, is a national leader in graduating students from widely diverse backgrounds. Georgia State readies students for professional pursuits, educates future leaders and prepares citizens for lifelong learning. Enrolling one of the most diverse student bodies in the nation at its downtown research campus, at its vibrant branch campuses and online, the university provides educational opportunities for more than 50,000 students at the graduate, baccalaureate, associate and certificate levels. For additional information about Georgia State University, visit gsu.edu . 

**Required Qualifications**

- Master’s degree from an ALA-accredited program or an advanced degree in a relevant science 
field. 
- Strong ability to work effectively with culturally diverse library users and colleagues 
- Knowledge of library resources in the sciences & interest in building further knowledge 
- Knowledge of data visualization tools and methods and interest in building further skills 
- Demonstrated desire to learn new skills and explore new areas of expertise 
- Excellent communication, presentation, and interpersonal skills 
 
**Preferred qualifications**

- Demonstrated experience working with library resources in the sciences 
- Demonstrated experience working with data visualization tools, e.g. Tableau 
- Experience providing in-person or online instruction 

If you feel that you don’t meet these preferred qualifications, don’t let a confidence gap stop you from 
applying. Sometimes a list of preferred qualifications can miss the elements that would most strengthen 
our team; we value the many different skills which make all of us unique.  
 
Condition of Work and Benefits   
: Twelve-month assignment   
: Faculty rank and status   
: Non-tenure track   
: Health and retirement benefits   
: Support for research and professional activities   
 
Salary range from $50,000-$65,000 dependent on experience, education, and faculty rank. Appointment at faculty rank (Instructor/Assistant/Associate Professor) is on a 12-month contract renewal basis.  

**To Apply**

Please submit: (1) a statement of interest in the position, including addressing the above qualifications; (2) curriculum vitae; and (3) contact information for three current references c/o the Library’s Human Resources Officer, liblao@gsu.edu, (404) 413-2712.

Review of materials will begin immediately, with complete applications received by September 19, 2021, receiving full consideration.

Any offer of employment at Georgia State University is contingent upon successful completion of a criminal background investigation. Georgia State University is an Equal Opportunity Employer and does not discriminate against applicants due to race, ethnicity, gender, veteran status, or on the basis of disability or any other federal, state or local protected class.