+++
title = "Data Project Assistant"
employer = "University of Michigan, ICPSR"
employerurl = "https://umich.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.umich.edu/job_detail/200407/data_project_assistant"
postdate = "2021-07-08"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
Working Title: Data Project Assistant
: Job Title: Research Technician Lead
: Work Location: Ann Arbor Campus, Ann Arbor, MI
: Full-Time/Regular
: FLSA Status: Nonexempt
: Organizational Group: Inst Soc Research
: Department: ICPSR - Project Management
: Salary: $42,000.00 – $45,000.00 

The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research, the world's largest archive of social science data, is now accepting applications for a Data Project Assistant to assist with training and outreach, website support, and project management on the Child and Family Data Archive (CFData).

You will report to the Kaye Marz, Senior Project Manager.

**Responsibilities***

The major responsibilities include:

**Training, Outreach, and User Client Communication**

You will assist with a variety of outreach-related tasks, including planning, executing, and providing support for data trainings in multiple formats. You will also assist with data dissemination activities including planning data webinars with data producers, promoting and hosting webinars, developing data release announcements, developing and distributing newsletters, planning conference exhibits; and creating new dissemination-related resources.

**Website Content Support**

You will assist Project Managers and work with the ICPSR web team to keep website content up-to-date. You will also help plan and create data resources and other website content, web announcements, and Google Analytics dashboards for monthly and quarterly reports; assist with expanding the Bibliography of data-related resources; and conduct periodic, regular website testing.

**Project Support**

You will assist Project Managers with a variety of project management tasks, including documenting project activities and creating progress and usage reports; answer user support inquiries and assist with project sponsor inquiries; assist with scheduling meetings, compiling call summary notes, and tracking project activities. You will also work on a variety of special assignments.

**Required Qualifications***

- Bachelor's degree

- 2+ years (1 year for Senior Level) of related experience

- Experience with or general knowledge of statistical processing software such as SPSS, SAS, or Stata

**Desired Qualifications***

- Experience with social science or education data

- User support or customer service experience

- Experience working in a research setting

- Experience conducting outreach, coordinating webinars, and website content development

- Experience producing content for external audiences

**Underfill Statement**

This posting may be filled at the Lead or Senior level, depending on qualifications.
Additional Information

The Institute for Social Research (ISR) at the University of Michigan wants to employ a diverse workforce as a reflection of our commitment to serve the diverse people of Michigan, to maintain the excellence of the university, and to ground our research in varied disciplines, perspectives, and ways of knowing and learning.

**Benefits**

In addition to a career filled with purpose and opportunity, U-M offers a comprehensive benefits package to help you stay well, protect yourself and your family, and plan for a secure future. Benefits include generous time off; retirement plan with two-for-one matching contributions after the first year; many choices for comprehensive health insurance; life insurance; long-term disability coverage; and flexible spending accounts for healthcare and dependent care expenses. Learn more about U-M benefits.

**U-M EEO/AA Statement**

The University of Michigan is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.