+++
title = "Program Director, Geospatial Research Support"
employer = "American University"
employerurl = "https://www.american.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.american.edu/Staff/job/Washington-Program-Director%2C-Geospatial-Research-Support-%2811630%29-DC-20171/817295100/"
postdate = "2021-12-02"
archivedate = "2021-12-28"
draft = "false"
+++
The Program Director of Geospatial Research Support provides expertise on the development and application of geospatial analysis processes, protocols, and solutions for American University faculty and students in their work with geospatial data and applications, both in the AU Geospatial Research Lab and in remote fieldwork. Supports the research and teaching programs of the American University using GIS technology and resources. This position also develops and delivers instruction programs on using geospatial data and technologies and creates and maintains asynchronous educational materials in this area.  The incumbent has responsibility for building and curating American University Library’s spatial data collection This position also may participate in library and university research support initiatives, strategic planning, and other unit-wide responsibilities.

**Essential Functions**

- The incumbent has responsibility for the definition and provision of services in support of geospatial research. Provide expertise on the development and application of geospatial analysis processes, protocols, and solutions for American University faculty and students in their work with geospatial data and applications, both in the AU Geospatial Research Lab and in remote fieldwork.  Provide insight and services to students and researchers with the selection and use of appropriate tools and resources for geospatial data. Work with campus partners to develop geospatially enhanced research and education at all levels, identifying and cultivating partnerships with other university programs and departments on geospatial initiatives.   Create and maintain relevant educational learning objects, guides and tutorials. Stay abreast of developments in the application and creation of geospatial information, related software, including but not limited to mobile GIS applications, remote sensing, and dissemination methods in the academic trends of Geography research.
- Design and deliver a geospatial literacy program that supports the academic curriculum across the university through workshops and in-class instruction.
- Assist AU researchers in creating, collecting, organizing, and preserving new GIS data for publication while documenting the data using appropriate methods, tools, and metadata standards.  Support spatial data preservation activities, and in conjunction with scholars, create plans for managing the lifecycle of GIS data to include its proper curation in compliance with grant requirements.Provide access to professionally curated spatial data collections and related software. Identify and document useful and current GIS data sources and tools, and work as a member of the Library’s Collection Management Team to budget for, select, license, and acquire spatial data, hardware, and software.
- Outreach, promotion of services, and liaison work with faculty and departments.   
- Activities related to running and providing access to the Geospatial Research Lab, which includes working with appropriate IT units to ensure that machines and software licenses are in working condition, coordinating the room’s schedule, ensuring the upkeep of the Geospatial Research Lab website and subject guide, and related activities as assigned.
- Participate in other library initiatives and other duties as assigned.   

**Work Environment**

- Possible conference travel

**Position Type/Expected Hours of Work**

- Full Time
- Project Leader/Advisor B
- Exempt

**Salary Range**

- $74,430 to $75,919

**Required Education and Experience**

- Master's degree or equivalent
- 3-5 years of relevant experience

**Preferred Education and Experience**

- PhD or equivalent
- 4-6 years of relevant experience

**Additional Eligibility Qualifications**

- Hiring offers for this position are contingent on successful completion of a background check.
- To ensure the health and safety of our community AU requires COVID-19 vaccinations for faculty and staff. Click here to learn more about our health and safety directive.

**Benefits**

- Click here to learn about American University's unique benefit options.

**Others**

- Please note this job description is not designed to cover or contain a comprehensive listing of activities, duties or responsibilities that are required of the employee for this job. Duties, responsibilities and activities may change at any time with or without notice.

**Current American University Employees:**

If you are a current full-time or part-time staff member at American University, please log into AsuccessfulU through the myAU portal. Once in AsuccessfulU, please select the Careers tile which will take you to our internal career page. 

**Contact Us:**

For more information or assistance with the American University careers site, email theworkline@american.edu.

American University is an equal opportunity, affirmative action institution that operates in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The university does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex (including pregnancy), age, sexual orientation, disability, marital status, personal appearance, gender identity and expression, family responsibilities, political affiliation, source of income, veteran status, an individual’s genetic information or any other bases under federal or local laws (collectively "Protected Bases") in its programs and activities.