+++
title = "Research Analyst, Data Visualization"
employer = "ADA Health Policy Institute"
employerurl = "https://www.ada.org/en/science-research/health-policy-institute"
moreinfourl = "https://recruiting.ultipro.com/AME1086AMDA/JobBoard/e8a5a335-fd0c-acdf-b89a-2aa7d2f8be7f/OpportunityDetail?opportunityId=a15a95c3-45b6-4840-84a4-540a03960914"
postdate = "2021-09-28"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
The Research Analyst, Data Visualization will be responsible for delivering data in useful and appealing formats to internal and external users, enhancing and modernizing the ADA Health Policy Institute’s data visualization function. This role will also help manage, clean and program various data sources; work with other researchers in the team on specific data queries, and perform other activities as needed, including survey data analysis, reporting, and research paper writing.

Full-Time/Chicago Office

**Minimum Qualifications:**

- Bachelor’s Degree in Math, economics, data analytics, visualization, or other quantitative disciplines, with 3 years of proven experience in/with developing and publishing data visualization dashboards online; programming in SAS or similar language; performing data queries, and data analysis and reporting.
- In lieu of a Bachelor's Degree, 7 years of experience is required.
- Must have the ability to shift between multiple projects
- Must be detail-oriented
- Must be able to work with different team members, seek feedback and clarification
- Must be able to think of creative and innovative ways to improve processes and deliverables.
- Must have excellent communication, analytical and interpersonal skills.
- Must have knowledge of data visualization best practices, visual style guides, data analysis, and troubleshooting.
- Must be proficient in Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint)
- Proficient in Tableau
- Proficient in SAS, STATA, or similar programming language

**Highly Desirable Skills:**

- Microsoft SQL Server skills may be helpful for this position.
- Experience with ETL tools like Business Objects or Azure Data Factory
- Familiarity with online survey tools
- Proficient in Power BI.
- Familiarity with Photoshop or similar graphic design tool


Equal Opportunity Employer/Protected Veterans/Individuals with Disabilities