+++
title = "Librarian/Head - Donald E. Stokes Library"
employer = "Princeton University"
employerurl = "https://library.princeton.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://puwebp.princeton.edu/AcadHire/apply/application.xhtml?listingId=19803"
postdate = "2021-03-27"
archivedate = "2021-03-28"
draft = "false"
+++

Librarian/Head - Donald E. Stokes Library - Princeton University

Princeton University Library seeks a dynamic, service-oriented, and highly collaborative library professional to lead the Donald E. Stokes Library for Public & International Affairs. The Stokes Library houses two main collections, the Ansley J. Coale Population Research Collection and the School of Public and International Affairs Reserve Collection. Under the direction of the Head of Stokes Library, librarians and staff support the faculty, students, staff and visiting scholars of Princeton’s School of Public and International Affairs (SPIA, formerly Woodrow Wilson School), including its Office of Population Research (OPR) and 19 research centers. The Head of Stokes Library works closely with SPIA to ensure the Library provides outstanding teaching and research support for faculty, as well as support for coursework and independent work for undergraduate students, including junior Policy Task Forces, Research Seminars and senior theses. Addressing the multidisciplinary nature of SPIA, Stokes Library supports graduate students and scholars associated with other academic units including Economics, Politics, Sociology, Psychology and Population Studies. Librarians provide in-course instruction and in-depth research consultations for students and researchers. Further, Stokes Library supports research methodologies in the social sciences by offering non-credit workshops and data analysis support through the nascent Stokes Viz Hub. Library staff process a high volume of course-related materials.

This position provides direct instruction and research consultation services to SPIA students, and is responsible for collection development (selection and budget management) for public policy materials. In addition, the Head of the Stokes Library oversees three librarians and one administrative staff member who has three direct reports. This position works closely with librarians in other academic areas related to the School's integrative teaching and research and collaborates with other Library and University departments as needed. The incumbent also supervises the day-to-day operations of the Stokes Library. This position also collaborates with the newly established Office of Research Data and Open Scholarship as well as social science librarians based in Firestone Library. The Head of Stokes Library also represents Princeton in relevant regional, national, and international professional and scholarly organizations. 

The Donald E. Stokes Library is an open and accessible facility, offering students, faculty and scholars space to collaborate or to study individually. It houses an electronic classroom, group study rooms and individual study carrels amid its collections of print, microfilm, and digital resources. It includes the Stokes Viz Hub, a physical facility and online service supporting data analysis, qualitative research, and visualization. The Ansley J. Coale Population Research Collection houses an extensive collection of demographic materials including international censuses, and subject materials on formal demography (fertility, mortality, and immigration), population policy, family planning, epidemiology, child and public health, and health statistics. The Library’s Reserve Collection supports both graduate and undergraduate studies for SPIA. 

 Required Qualifications: 

    An ALA accredited Master's degree in library/information science or equivalent combination of advanced degrees in relevant disciplines and library/academic work experience.

    A minimum of three years of full-time work experience in an academic or research library or within an academic research center.

    Substantial coursework in the social sciences or equivalent experience in social science research support.

    Demonstrated experience using and/or teaching current research methods in the social sciences including dataset manipulation, machine learning and/or qualitative coding.

    Substantial familiarity with library resources and databases in international affairs, public policy, politics, US and international government publications, economic policy, and/or social science data.

    Demonstrated experience with leadership, management and/or strategic planning.

    Excellent interpersonal skills and demonstrated ability to work collaboratively, reliably and collegially with a diverse group of colleagues and scholars. 

    Demonstrated commitment to and experience supporting Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) work in an academic library context.

    Practical experience providing in-depth reference consultations, teaching in a social science context and/or providing library instruction sessions.


 Strongly Preferred:

    At least two years experience supervising librarians or equivalent professional staff in an academic setting.

    At least two years of successful experience managing a branch library or library department.

    Five years of full-time work experience in an academic or research library or within an academic research center.

    Undergraduate or graduate degree in a relevant social science.

    Ability to work effectively in a rapidly changing environment.


Applications are accepted at

https://puwebp.princeton.edu/AcadHire/apply/application.xhtml?listingId=19803 
