+++
title = "Director"
employer = "CESSDA"
employerurl = "https://www.cessda.eu/"
moreinfourl = "https://www.cessda.eu/content/download/6235/65943/file/Vacancy_announcement_Director_2021.pdf"
postdate = "2021-11-15"
archivedate = "2021-12-28"
draft = "false"
+++
The Consortium of European Social Science Data Archives (CESSDA) European Research Infrastructure Consortium (ERIC) is a distributed research infrastructure. CESSDA ERIC provides large scale, integrated and sustainable services to the social sciences. It brings together social science data archives across Europe, with the aim of promoting the results of social science research and supporting national and international research and cooperation. The Main Office is located in Bergen, Norway.

CESSDA ERIC is seeking qualified candidates for the full-time position of: DIRECTOR

Job title: Director
: Contract duration: Five years
: Hours: Full-time position
: Responsible to: General Assembly
: Purpose of the job: The director is the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chief Scientific Officer and legal representative of CESSDA ERIC, leading the team and organisation.
: Location: Bergen, Norway

**The Director is expected to:**

- Develop the CESSDA ERIC strategy that will maintain CESSDA ERIC as a high-quality pan-European infrastructure for the Social Sciences.
- Represent CESSDA ERIC in various relevant European committees and events.
- Continue building and consolidating strong and effective pan-European and further international relationships, e.g. with (new) CESSDA ERIC members, other ERICs, especially in the field of Social Science, as well as with the EOSC and a broad range of stakeholders within and outside the consortium.
- Focus on service-orientation towards end-users and Service Providers and connect CESSDA services to EOSC.
- Design the scientific, and technical and service-related steps that will enable implementation of the CESSDA ERIC Strategy.
- Manage CESSDA ERIC as CEO in line with the responsibilities in the statutes and reporting to the General Assembly.
- Direct the coordination and cooperation among Service Providers and between them and CESSDA ERIC.
- Lead European and international project acquisition as well as broader fundraising efforts for CESSDA ERIC.
- Prepare the annual budget, strategies, and policies to be adopted by the General Assembly.
- Collaborate with the different committees of the General Assembly.
- Monitor the adherence of the Service Providers to the operational rules and standards for CESSDA ERIC-related activities and projects.
- Facilitate and support the Service Providers’ Forum and the Scientific Advisory Board.
- Ensure that CESSDA ERIC’s services comply with appropriate legal regulations and other relevant ethical, scientific, and societal principles.
- Direct the CESSDA ERIC Main Office and team in Bergen, Norway.
- Coordinate public relations and key dissemination activities.The ideal candidate will have:
- A higher university degree in the Social Sciences, or a closely related field (PhD preferred).
- A professional background in social science research and/or data management, or a closely related field.
- A proven track record in project acquisition and fundraising at European level.
- A well-developed understanding of the ERIC concept, the ESFRI Roadmap and EOSC.
- A well-developed network within the European infrastructure environment.
- Broad management capabilities, including experience in financial/budgetary management, organisational development, and team leadership.
- Excellent communication and negotiation skills.
- Good command of the English language.

The candidate should be able to further develop the organisation and its strategy based on CESSDA’s current strategy and demonstrate the leadership ability to do so. The candidate should have the organisational and management skills to deliver results in a complex and evolving European research infrastructure. Specific experience from the European Research Area, ESFRI process, ERICs, EOSC and international arena, as well as the key funding mechanisms available, is desirable.

**Location**

The Director is expected to have their daily office and home base at the Main Office in Bergen, Norway. Regular travel to Service Providers in other European locations and to events and committees at EU-level is an important part of the role.

**Tenure**

The Director will be appointed for a five-year period and can be re-appointed. The salary offered will be based on the qualifications and experience of the candidate. Relocation assistance will also be offered where appropriate.

**Application process**

To apply, please send your Curriculum Vitae and a Cover Letter describing your motivation to the Chair of the CESSDA ERIC General Assembly, Helena Laaksonen: helena.laaksonen (at) tuni.fi.

Please use “CESSDA Director” in the title field.

The closing date for receipt of applications: 15 December 2021.

Shortlisted candidates will be contacted directly and should be prepared to participate in an interview with members of the CESSDA ERIC Recruitment Committee in Bergen, Norway. Interview date to be confirmed (January 2022).

Anticipated start date in office, for the appointed Director: March 2022.

CESSDA ERIC is an inclusive, equal-opportunity and non-discriminatory employer.

For more information, contact the Vice-Chair of the CESSDA ERIC General Assembly Matthias Reiter-Pázmándy: matthias.reiter-pazmandy (at) bmbwf.gv.at.