+++
title = "Health & Life Sciences Librarian"
employer = "The College of New Jersey"
employerurl = "https://www.tcnj.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://tcnj.taleo.net/careersection/00_ex_faculty/jobdetail.ftl?job=21003113&tz=GMT-04%3A00&tzname=America%2FNew_York"
postdate = "2021-10-07"
archivedate = "2021-10-07"
draft = "false"
+++
R. Barbara Gitenstein Library at The College of New Jersey (TCNJ) invites applications for a full-time, tenure-track Health & Life Sciences Librarian.

**Summary of Responsibilities**

Provides library services to TCNJ students, faculty, and staff, particularly in the School of Nursing, Health, and Exercise Science and the Department of Biology in the School of Science. Services include information literacy instruction, subject-specialized and general reference, and collection development and management of health and life sciences-related library resources. Engages in scholarly and service activities expected of tenure-track librarians. Participates in a library and campus community that is working to promote diversity, equity, inclusion, and racial justice. Reports to the Dean of the Library.  Some evening and weekend duties required.

**Qualifications**

Required: ALA-accredited master's degree and a broad knowledge of health and life sciences resources. Educational background and/or experience in a field relevant to health and life sciences. (Relevant experience may include, but is not limited to, academic library experience, experience in other teaching or research positions, and/or experience in clinical or laboratory settings.) Professional and pedagogical commitment to equity, diversity, and inclusion. Demonstrated ability to work both independently and collaboratively. Excellent communication, interpersonal, and problem-solving skills. Demonstrated excellence in communicating across a diverse range of constituencies; initiative, flexibility, and a strong service orientation.

Preferred: Significant experience using health and life sciences resources. Experience working in an academic library. Collection development experience. Reference or instruction experience.  Knowledge of current and emerging instructional technologies. Experience working with graduate or continuing professional students. Additional graduate degree in an appropriate discipline. Record of scholarship and/or service.

More detailed information about the position and the online application process is available on the TCNJ Careers website. Review of application materials will begin immediately and will continue until a candidate is hired. To ensure full consideration, application materials must be received by October 28, 2021.

To enrich education through diversity, The College of New Jersey is an Equal Opportunity Employer. TCNJ has a strong commitment to inclusive excellence and to achieve diversity among faculty and staff. We strongly encourage a host of diverse, intersectional populations and cultures to apply including, but not limited to, identities based on race, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, disability, national origin, and veteran status.