+++
title = "Library Information Management Interns (Data Services)"
employer = "Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City"
employerurl = "https://www.kansascityfed.org/"
moreinfourl = ""
postdate = "2021-08-11"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
The Research Library at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City is recruiting for two Data Services Interns. The Research Library provides support for innovative research on monetary policy and macroeconomics. For 2021-2022, we are offering two paid data service internships for current undergraduate and graduate students. Internships pay at $18 per hour. One position will focus on data reference services and the other position will focus on data technical services.

**Key Projects:**

- Build a knowledge database to support evaluation of economic data resources
- Assist with the creation and update of workflows and corresponding documentation
- Revise and enhance data bibliographic records in system-wide ILS

**Data Services: Reference Intern**

The data services reference intern will focus on developing skills and projects that support the discovery, promotion, and management of business and economic data resources to support the diverse needs of research economists. Key projects will include investigating new data sources, matching existing data resources to needs, and learning about data citations in publications. Apply for the Reference Intern position through our website.  

**Data Services: Technical Services Intern**

The data services technical intern will focus on developing skills to support the acquisition, onboarding, and data management life cycle of acquired data resources. Key projects will include managing data inventories and metadata about data resources, working with information technology (IT) staff to trouble shoot access issues, and supporting research reproducibility via data citations and data releases. Apply for the Technical Services Intern position through our website.  

These positions will provide excellent experience for students interested in developing skills relevant to data services, business librarianship, or positions in special or corporate libraries. Applicants must be able to work at least 20 hours a week. The internships are for both fall and spring semesters through May 15th. Applicants should also meet the requirements below.

**Required Education and Skills:**

- Basic knowledge and skills related to data management, curation, reproducibility, and/or acquisition
- Strong interest in data support services
- Attention to details and strong organizational skills  
- Proven ability to work independently 
- Excellent communication skills  
- Current enrollment in an undergraduate or graduate program
- Enrollment in a library or information science graduate program and/or two (2) years’ experience in a library setting working with data preferred

**To Apply:**

- Please attach a resume, cover letter and unofficial transcript copy. 
- Please apply by August 23, 2021 to be considered.  

For more information on CADRE and the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, please visit us on the web at www.kansascityfed.org