+++
title = "Data Project Assistant"
employer = "University of Michigan, ICPSR"
employerurl = "https://www.umich.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.umich.edu/job_detail/194136/data_project_assistant"
postdate = "2021-02-16"
archivedate = "2021-02-16"
draft = "false"
+++
Working Title: Data Project Assistant
: Job Title: Research Technician Lead
: Work Location: Ann Arbor Campus, Ann Arbor, MI
: Full-Time/Regular
: FLSA Status: Nonexempt
: Organizational Group: Inst Soc Research
: Department: ICPSR - Project Management and
: Posting Begin/End Date: 2/09/2021 – 2/23/2021
: Salary: $40,000.00 – $45,000.00
: Career Interest: Research

**How to Apply**

A cover letter is required for consideration for this position and should be attached as the first page of your resume. Your cover letter should address your specific interest in the position and outline experience that relates to this position directly. (Applications without cover letters will not be considered.)
Responsibilities*

The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR), the world's largest archive of social science data, is now accepting applications for a Data Project Assistant to help enhance the usability of the Population Assessment of Tobacco and Health (PATH) study, a longitudinal cohort study on tobacco use behavior, attitudes and beliefs, and tobacco-related health outcomes, archived at ICPSR in the National Addiction & HIV Data Archive Program (NAHDAP).

You will assist the Data Manager in producing standardized documentation and complete data packages that are ready for dissemination to the public for access and that follow archival best practices.

**The major responsibilities include:**

Data Management

You will assist the Data Manager in producing standardized documentation that is part of a complete data package using ICPSR standards and tools. This includes structuring the data and documentation so that they can be searched and analyzed through ICPSR’s online tools. Additionally, you will work with ICPSR’s Curation team to ensure data production follows ICPSR’s standards by completing quality check reviews and release processes.

Communication, Coordination, and Outreach Support

You will assist the Data Manager in coordinating the delivery and review of data materials with external partners who supply data and work with them to ensure the successful release of high-quality data and data documentation files for secondary analysis.

Additionally, you will help with outreach activities, including conferences, announcements, webinars, data training events, and workshops.

Project Support

You will assist project managers with a variety of tasks, including documenting activities and creating progress and usage reports as well as special assignments as needed.

**Required Qualifications***

- Bachelor’s degree
- 2+ years (1 year for Senior Level) of related experience managing or analyzing social science data including independent use of one or more statistical applications (SAS, SPSS, R, Stata, Python, etc.)
- Experience creating codebooks and other kinds of study documentation

**Desired Qualifications***

- 1+ year data curation experience 
- Familiarity with DDI display properties
- Navigation and use of programming scripts within a Unix environment

**Underfill Statement**

This posting may be filled at the Lead or Senior level, depending on qualifications.

**Additional Information**

Benefits

In addition to a career filled with purpose and opportunity, U-M offers a comprehensive benefits package to help you stay well, protect yourself and your family, and plan for a secure future. Benefits include generous time off; retirement plan with two-for-one matching contributions after the first year; many choices for comprehensive health insurance; life insurance; long-term disability coverage; and flexible spending accounts for healthcare and dependent care expenses. Learn more about U-M benefits.

Reporting

You will report to the PATH Data Manager.

The Institute for Social Research at the University of Michigan seeks to recruit and retain a diverse workforce as a reflection of our commitment to serve the diverse people of Michigan, to maintain the excellence of the university, and to ground our research in varied disciplines, perspectives, and ways of knowing and learning. 

**U-M EEO/AA Statement**

The University of Michigan is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.