+++
title = "Chief Data and Privacy Officer" 
employer = "The Coleridge Initiative"
employerurl = "https://coleridgeinitiative.org/"
moreinfourl = "not available"
postdate = "2020-11-17"
archivedate = "2021-02-04"
draft = "false"
+++
**Chief Data and Privacy Officer** 

**Overview**

The Coleridge Initiative is a not-for-profit start-up, originally established at New York University, which became fully autonomous and independent in early 2020. The organization is at the forefront of transforming the empirical foundation of social science, statistical and public agencies in the United States and the understanding of how our society works.

The Coleridge Initiative works with government agencies to break down data barriers around confidential data, through building new technologies housed in a secure computational research platform, the Administrative Data Research Facility (ADRF), to promote access and discovery of sensitive and confidential microdata. Those technologies are combined with training programs and consulting services to build governmental agency capacity to serve society. We have already created dozens of pilot projects and worked with over 100 agencies—federal, state, and local—and trained over 500 agency staff.

**Position Description**

The Chief Data and Privacy Officer will lead the development and implementation of the privacy and data initiatives for the Coleridge Initiative. The CDPO will:

Lead the Privacy and Confidentiality work, including:

Leading the privacy and confidentiality team

- Leading the production disclosure documentation based on the most up-to-date disclosure control techniques.

- Developing scalable processes for export releases pertaining to independent research in languages such as SAS, STATA, R and Python to use for disclosure automation.

- Staying abreast of current research in the field, presenting at national and international conferences, and maintaining the leadership, visibility and credibility of the Coleridge Initiative

- Managing analysts’ access to datasets, including oversight of the application process, ensuring compliance with best practices and established ADRF data management policies.

- Implementing and enhancing the data stewardship module and evangelizing its use in federal and state agencies.

Lead the development of the Coleridge data infrastructure, including

- Working proactively with federal, state and local agencies to understand the nature of their data

- Working with the data team to develop data quality assessments and standardized approaches to correcting obvious issues

- Ensuring the integrity and security of data housed in the ADRF

- Developing a consistent metadata curation approach

- Establishing an approach to integrating the rich context corpus with the metadata management tool, Informatica

- Contributing, as part of a team, to ADRF platform enhancement projects using appropriate technologies in research and large-scale data management, and/or interactive visualization and specialized data presentation interfaces.

Support other Coleridge activities, including

- Supporting outreach to federal and state agencies

- Working collaboratively with all members of the team 

**Qualifications**

- Master’s or PhD degree in Economics, Public Policy, Applied Data Analytics, Statistics or related fields.

- 3+ years’ experience working with large administrative data.

- Proficiency with R, Python, and/or Stata.

- Experience with data visualization and interpretation.

- Experience developing and publishing original research.

- Experience working with government and/or non-profit agencies preferred
 
**Salary and Benefits**

In addition to competitive salaries, Coleridge Initiative provides a comprehensive benefits package inclusive of the following:

- Generous paid time off, including vacation, personal and sick leave

- Comprehensive medical and dental insurance for employees and dependents

- Retirement plan with a company funded matching percentage

- Annual performance raises based on your success in advancing the mission of the organization

**EEO Statement**

All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment and will not be discriminated against on the basis of race, color, religion, gender identity, sexual orientation, national origin, age, disability, or protected veteran status. The Coleridge Initiative takes affirmative action in support of its policy to employ and advance in employment individuals who are minorities, women, protected veterans, and individuals with disabilities. 