+++
title = "Research Data Support Officer"
employer = "University of Edinburgh"
employerurl = "https://www.ed.ac.uk/"
moreinfourl = "https://edin.ac/3sfrGWf"
postdate = "2021-12-17"
archivedate = "2021-12-28"
draft = "false"
+++
Research Data Support Officer

UE07 £34,304 - £40,927 per annum

Information Services/Library and University Collections/Library Research Support

Open-ended contract, full time 35 hours per week

We are looking for an expert advisor in research data management to join the Research Data Service to help roll out the new Research Data Management Policy across the University

**The Opportunity:**

This is an exciting time to join the Research Data Support team. Building on successful prior research data management roadmaps, we will be working with researchers and support staff to ensure every research project has a costed data management plan and is curated appropriately throughout the data lifecycle, according to the principles of FAIR (findable, accessible, interoperable, reusable). You will be a key player in conveying expert information to our user community through training, outreach and 1:1 support. You will also help us deliver the Open Research roadmap by collaborating with academic champions, Library colleagues and IT support staff

**Your skills and attributes for success:**

- Creative and clear communicator and trainer
- Expertise in research data management requirements and solutions
- Understanding of academic research environments and incentives
- Passion for improving science and scholarship
- Awareness of modern trends in scholarly communication and digital research methods

Visit our website: https://www.ed.ac.uk/is/research-data-service

**As a valued member of our team you can expect:**

An exciting, positive, creative, challenging and rewarding place to work. We give you support, nurture your talent and reward success. You will benefit from a competitive reward package and a wide range of staff benefits, which includes a generous holiday entitlement, a defined benefits pension scheme , staff discounts, family friendly initiatives , flexible working and much more. Access our staff benefits page for further information and use our reward calculator to find out the total value of pay and benefits provided

Edinburgh is regularly voted as one of the most desirable places to live in the world. https://www.ed.ac.uk/visit/city

The University of Edinburgh holds a Silver Athena SWAN award in recognition of our commitment to advance gender equality in higher education. We are members of the Race Equality Charter and we are also Stonewall Scotland Diversity Champions, actively promoting LGBT equality

The closing date for applications is Monday 17th January 2022 at 5pm. I nterviews will be held using Microsoft Teams on 26th and 27th January

If invited for an interview you will be required to evidence your right to work in the UK. Further information is available on our right to work webpages

The University is able to sponsor the employment of international workers in this role. If successful, an international applicant requiring sponsorship to work in the UK will need to satisfy the UK Home Office’s English Language requirements and apply for and secure a Tier 2/Skilled Worker Visa.