+++
title = "Postdoctoral Research Fellow"
employer = "The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill"
employerurl = "https://www.berkeley.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://unc.peopleadmin.com/postings/186996"
postdate = "2021-01-13"
archivedate = "2021-02-04"
draft = "false"
+++

Position Title : Postdoctoral Research Fellow
: Vacancy ID : PDS002954
: Department : Criminal Justice Innov Lab - 375506
: Position Type : Postdoctoral Scholar
: Full-time/Part-time : Full Time
: Estimated Duration of Appointment : 12 Months
: Posting Open Date : 01/07/2021
: Open Until Filled : Yes
: Work Location : Chapel Hill, NC

**Position Summary:**

The Criminal Justice Innovation Lab (Lab) at the UNC School of Government seeks a qualified candidate interested in the criminal justice system to serve as a Postdoctoral Research Fellow. The position is for one year, with the possibility of extension.

Situation within the SOG, the Lab seeks to promote a fair and effective criminal justice system, public safety, and economic prosperity. It works by engaging a broad range of North Carolina stakeholders to examine the criminal justice system through an evidence-based perspective and promoting the use of a rigorous evidence-based approach to criminal justice policy. The Lab focuses its work on “front end” issues, including bail, overcriminalization, and policing, but selectively engages in other projects promoting safe and healthy communities.

The Fellow will engage in research regarding racial equity in the criminal system, primarily quantitative research using court data. Research will examine criminal charging, case disposition methods and outcomes, and related data points at the state and local level to inform pressing public policy issues. The Fellow will prepare a variety of project deliverables including print and online materials, data visualizations, briefing papers, and longer pieces. As time and interest allow, the Fellow may support existing and new collaborative, consensus bail reform projects; research regarding state and county level jail populations; and ongoing policing reform projects. The position will provide opportunity for leadership through project management. Although supervised by Lab Director Professor Jessica Smith, the Fellow will have ample opportunity to engage directly with a diverse array of stakeholders, including judicial leaders, prosecutors, defenders, law enforcement, and community members.

**Educational Requirements:** Ph.D. in criminology, economics, political science, public health, or related field

**Qualifications and Experience:**

Required
- Empirical research skills, with a heavy emphasis on quantitative research involving rigorous methodology
- Proficiency in working with SQL databases and knowledge of SQL programming language
- Proficiency in data extraction, merging, and management
- Ability to be professional in a nonadvocacy, nonpartisan environment

Preferred
- Familiarity with the criminal system
- Proficiency in R Markdown or R Shiny

**Equal Opportunity Employer:**

The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to age, color, disability, gender, gender expression, gender identity, genetic information, race, national origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, or status as a protected veteran.

**Special Instructions:**

We will begin reviewing applications on Feb. 1, 2021.
