+++
title = "Data Librarian"
employer = "University of Toronto"
employerurl = "https://www.utoronto.ca"
moreinfourl = "https://uoft.me/datalibrarian"
postdate = "2021-04-16"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
POSITION: Data Librarian, Librarian II or III, Full Time

DEPARTMENT: Map and Data Library, University of Toronto Libraries

Are you looking for challenging, meaningful work in a supportive and diverse environment? Are you looking for a career at one of Canada’s top employers? Work where the world comes to think, discover and learn. Consider a career at the University of Toronto.

**About the University of Toronto Libraries**

The University of Toronto Libraries system is the largest academic library in Canada and is consistently ranked in the top ten among academic research libraries in North America.  The system consists of 42 libraries located on three university campuses: St. George, Mississauga, and Scarborough. This array of college libraries, special collections, and specialized libraries and information centres supports the teaching and research requirements of over 300 graduate programs, more than 70 professional programs, and about 700 undergraduate degree programs. In addition to more than 15 million volumes in 341 languages, the library system currently provides access to millions of electronic resources in various forms and over 31,000 linear metres of archival material. More than 150,000 new print volumes are acquired each year. The Libraries’ data centre houses more than 500 servers with a storage capacity of 1.5 petabytes.

**The Opportunity**

Reporting to the Head of the Map and Data Library (MDL), the Data Librarian will engage with users across the university as part of a dynamic team that provides a growing range of data services across the full research cycle.

Responsibilities are as follows:

- Support data services in coordination with other staff and librarians in MDL and across UTL
- Provide in-depth research consultations on the discovery, analysis and the use of statistical, qualitative analysis and/or GIS software
- Provide leadership for data services in one or more areas of data specialization such as geospatial data, quantitative data, qualitative data, data visualization, research data management, data sciences, etc.
- Develop and deliver instructional material in one or more areas of data specialization
- Initiate, lead and support special projects
- Liaise with academic programs involved in data-related research and instruction
- Participate in collection development activities for datasets and related material

Required Qualifications

- Relevant professional experience
- A degree from an accredited Masters level program in library and information studies
- Demonstrated commitment to the values of inclusivity, diversity and accessibility
- Demonstrated knowledge of and experience with common research methodologies, including data analysis techniques & tools
- Ability to communicate with faculty, librarians and students about data selection, management, and analysis
- Proven experience using one or more programming languages and tools in support of data analysis, such as R, Python, Mathematica, Matlab, Stata, and/or SAS
- Demonstrated commitment to the provision of high-quality public service
- Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills
- Ability to work independently and effectively with technology in a fast-paced environment while managing competing priorities
- Demonstrated experience or willingness to work as part of a team
- Strong written and oral communication skills and the ability to develop clear, concise, accurate technical documentation
- Ability to work cooperatively and collegially in a culturally diverse and rapidly changing environment
- Teaching and instruction experience

**Preferred Qualifications**

- Experience in an academic environment
- Familiarity with data stewardship and research data management concepts, including the development of Data Management Plans and the use of data repositories such as Dataverse
- Experience performing data selection, acquisition, reference in an academic setting
- Proven project management skills
- Experience working with HTML, XML, JSON, and other markup languages

**Salary and Terms of Appointment:** This is a Permanent Status Stream position.

Salary and appointment level are based upon experience and qualifications. It is anticipated that this position will be filled at the Librarian II or III level, subject to review and experience.

Minimum salary LIB II: $72,367; LIB III: $92,613 (Salary is dependent on rank at hire and qualifications).

**Benefits:** We offer generous benefits packages to all employees. Additional information is available at: https://hrandequity.utoronto.ca/careers/benefits/

NOTE: Librarians at the University of Toronto are members of the University of Toronto Faculty Association.

**Application Materials Required:** A cover letter, curriculum vitae, and contact information for three references of which at least two have supervised your work. Please send a single electronic file (MS Word or pdf) with a file name convention of [Surname, FirstName.DATASCI] to Library Human Resources at utlhr@utoronto.ca; or to Room 1140, 130 St. George Street, University of Toronto Libraries, Toronto, Ontario M5S 1A5; or by fax to (416) 946-5543 by May 12, 2021.

All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadians and permanent residents will be given priority.

**Diversity Statement**

The University of Toronto is strongly committed to diversity within its community and especially welcomes applications from racialized persons / persons of colour, women, Indigenous / Aboriginal People of North America, persons with disabilities, LGBTQ persons, and others who may contribute to the further diversification of ideas.

**Accessibility Statement**

The University strives to be an equitable and inclusive community, and proactively seeks to increase diversity among its community members. Our values regarding equity and diversity are linked with our unwavering commitment to excellence in the pursuit of our academic mission.

The University is committed to the principles of the Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act (AODA). As such, we strive to make our recruitment, assessment and selection processes as accessible as possible and provide accommodations as required for applicants with disabilities.

If you require any accommodations at any point during the application and hiring process, please contact utlhr@utoronto.ca.