+++
title = "Open Scholarship Librarian"
employer = "Syracuse University"
employerurl = "https://www.syr.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://www.sujobopps.com/postings/88489"
postdate = "2021-09-09"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
Department: SU Libraries

Location: Syracuse, NY

Pay Range: Commensurate with Experience

Staff Level: S5

FLSA Status: Exempt

Hours: Standard University business hours, may vary based on operational needs.

Job Type: Full-time

The Open Scholarship Librarian is a critical member of the Libraries’ Digital and Open Scholarship Team, situated within the Department of Research and Scholarship. The Open Scholarship Librarian will collaborate with internal and external partners to create and maintain policies and workflows relating to publishing and dissemination of scholarship.  This role involves shared responsibility for the SURFACE repository, guiding the team that supports the repository, and providing outreach and support to users of the repository. The Open Scholarship Librarian will additionally provide expert consultation on matters of open access publishing, archiving of scholarly pre- and post-prints, and other areas of authors’ rights.

**Qualifications**

- A master’s degree in Library Science or equivalent from an accredited institution.
- Relevant experience, preferably in an academic library environment.
- Commitment to support and contribute to a diverse, equitable, and inclusive environment.

Job Specific Qualifications 	

 - Knowledge of current digital scholarship and scholarly communication trends. 
 - Knowledge of developing technologies, standards, and best practices in digital scholarship and open publishing. 
 - Experience in preparing and delivering authors¿ rights presentations. 
 - Strong interpersonal skills with the ability to establish positive and productive collaborations with faculty, researchers, students, and librarians.

**Responsibilities**

Open Scholarship

 - Collaborate with partners inside and outside the library to conceive and support open scholarship, repository services, and other publishing- related initiatives
 - Collaborate with liaison librarians to understand and support open scholarship needs of the University and to facilitate sustainable scholarly production
 - Advocate for innovative and experimental models of scholarly publishing
 - Serve as the Libraries’ point person for open scholarship questions
 - Manage support for existing publications and open scholarship projects, including project documentation
 - Administer the University’s Read and Publish agreements
 - Translate ideas developed in collaboration with partners into actionable workflows in the Libraries with an emphasis on open digital models

Institutional Repository Management

  - Lead SURFACE team, cross- departmental group that maintains, improves, and promotes the Institutional Repository
 - Primary responsibility for developing and coordinating repository policies including collection development, outreach, and communication 
 - Develop collaborative workflows in support of campus open access policies
 - Develop training materials and programming for internal and external partners
 - Responsible for day- to- day repository operations, including support ticketing management and resolution, in conjunction with the SURFACE team and the and the Department of Digital Stewardship

Authors Rights and Reuse Rights

 - Consult with University authors on questions about publishing agreements and author’s rights
- Maintain awareness of relevant legal developments and issues related to scholarly publishing
- Collaborate with colleagues in the Libraries to develop consistent practices and recommendations around copyright for Libraries¿ services

**Professional Development**

- Stays current with developments in authors¿ rights, open access, scholarly publishing, and open educational resource initiatives. 
- Participate in interdisciplinary library teams as assigned and work collaboratively and creatively to implement and enhance programmatic services that benefit the University. 
- Engage in activities that contribute to the advancement of the Libraries, the university, and the library profession.
- Maintain awareness of professional developments, issues, and practices through research and activities that increase one’s knowledge and abilities, and that positively impact one’s performance and service contributions.

In addition to completing an online application, please attach a resume and cover letter.

**About Syracuse University**

Syracuse University is a private, international research university with distinctive academics, diversely unique offerings and an undeniable spirit. Located in the geographic heart of New York State, with a global footprint, and nearly 150 years of history, Syracuse University offers a quintessential college experience. 
 
The scope of Syracuse University is a testament to its strengths: a pioneering history dating back to 1870; a choice of more than 200 majors and 100 minors offered through 13 schools and colleges; nearly 15,000 undergraduates and 5,000 graduate students; more than a quarter of a million alumni in 160 countries; and a student population from all 50 U.S. states and 123 countries. For more information, please visit www.syracuse.edu.
About the Syracuse area 

Syracuse is a medium- sized city situated in the geographic center of New York State approximately 250 miles northwest of New York City. The metro- area population totals approximately 500,000. The area offers a low cost of living and provides many social, cultural, and recreational options, including parks, museums, festivals, professional regional theater, and premier shopping venues. Syracuse and Central New York present a wide range of seasonal recreation and attractions ranging from water skiing and snow skiing, hiking in the Adirondacks, touring the historic sites, visiting wineries along the Finger Lakes, and biking on trails along the Erie Canal.

EEOC

Syracuse University is an equal- opportunity, affirmative- action institution. The University prohibits discrimination and harassment based on race, color, creed, religion, sex, gender, national origin, citizenship, ethnicity, marital status, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression, veteran status, or any other status protected by applicable law to the extent prohibited by law. This nondiscrimination policy covers admissions, employment, and access to and treatment in University programs, services, and activities.

Commitment to Supporting and Hiring Veterans

Syracuse University has a long history of engaging veterans and the military- connected community through its educational programs, community outreach, and employment programs. After World War II, Syracuse University welcomed more than 10,000 returning veterans to our campus, and those veterans literally transformed Syracuse University into the national research institution it is today. The University’s contemporary commitment to veterans builds on this historical legacy, and extends to both class- leading initiatives focused on making an SU degree accessible and affordable to the post- 9/11 generation of veterans, and also programs designed to position Syracuse University as the employer of choice for military veterans, members of the Guard and Reserve, and military family members.

Commitment to a Diverse and Inclusive Campus Community 

Syracuse University maintains an inclusive learning environment in which students, faculty, administrators, staff, curriculum, social activities, governance, and all other aspects of campus life reflect a diverse, multi- cultural, and international worldview. The University community recognizes and values the many similarities and differences among individuals and groups. At Syracuse, we are committed to preparing students to understand, live among, appreciate, and work in an inherently diverse country and world made up of people with different ethnic and racial backgrounds, military backgrounds, religious beliefs, socio- economic status, cultural traditions, abilities, sexual orientations and gender identities. To do so, we commit ourselves to promoting a community that celebrates and models the principles of diversity and inclusivity.