+++
title = "GIS and Data Services Librarian"
employer = "Brock University"
employerurl = "https://brocku.ca"
moreinfourl = "https://brocku.wd3.myworkdayjobs.com/brocku_careers/job/St-Catharines-Main-Campus/Librarian--GIS---Data-Services_JR-1007773"
postdate = "2020-12-18"
archivedate = "2021-02-04"
draft = "false"
+++
**GIS and Data Services Librarian - Brock University Library - St. Catharines, ON**

**About Brock University**

Located at the centre of Canada's beautiful Niagara Peninsula, Brock offers an exciting work environment with strong undergraduate, graduate and interdisciplinary programs and a vigorous research culture. More information on Brock University can be found on the University’s website at https://www.brocku.ca . Informed by our values of innovation, integrity, inspiration and inclusivity, the Library’s mission is to enrich teaching, learning and research in our communities through collaborative expertise, rich content, and inclusive spaces. For further details about the Library, visit https://www.brocku.ca/library .

Brock offers all the benefits of a young and modern university in a safe, community-minded city, with beautiful natural surroundings. With over 19,000 students and more than 100 undergraduate and graduate programs in seven diverse Faculties, Brock excels at providing exceptional experiential learning opportunities and highly rated student and campus life experiences. Brock University’s main campus is situated atop the Niagara Escarpment, within a UNESCO World Biosphere Reserve, overlooking the City of St. Catharines, in the heart of Niagara wine country and is a short drive from Toronto, Niagara Falls, and Buffalo, New York. Niagara is an exceptional location to call home for the next stage of your career.

**About Brock University Library**

The Brock University Library includes the James A. Gibson Library; the Map, Data & GIS Library; Archives & Special Collections; as well as the Makerspace and Digital Scholarship Lab within the new Brock LINC facility. With six departments, a staff of 52 including 20 professional librarians, and an annual budget of over $10 million, the Library provides services and resources to support over 600 faculty and a growing student body.

Our progressive and talented community of librarians and staff are committed to student success, collegiality, and collaboration. Our values of Innovation, Integrity, Inspiration and Inclusivity guide all that we do. The Brock Library strategic plan contains four strategic pillars highlighting student success; the research lifecycle; community engagement; and strengthening capacity.

The Library is currently engaged in a consultative organizational design process that is examining structures, processes, and service models that better align with the Library’s and the University’s strategic plans. Candidates should be comfortable working in an evolutionary environment in which the organization continues to grow and change in alignment with strategic directions.

**About the Opportunity**

Brock University Library invites applications for the full-time probationary position of GIS and Data Services Librarian from qualified candidates who will thrive in a dynamic, fluid and team-oriented environment. Reporting to the Head of the Map, Data & GIS Library / Digital Scholarship Lab, the successful candidate will provide a full range of GIS and data services, including consultations, research support, instruction, and outreach in the discovery and use of GIS/geospatial and data services to the campus community. This role also provides a critical conduit between the Brock community and the external geospatial and data communities. The incumbent may serve as a liaison to one or more academic departments.

The successful candidate will be a member of the Map, Data & GIS Library / Digital Scholarship Lab, and will:
- Provide leadership in the planning, promotion, and delivery of GIS/geospatial and data services.
- Collaborate with colleagues across Brock Library including the Scholarly Communications Working Group, the Digital Scholarship Lab, the Map, Data & GIS Library, and Liaison Services Department.
- Engage in collection development by maintaining and developing the Library’s collections of geospatial data, maps, government documents, legal information, and numeric data collections, as appropriate.
- Liaise with GIS and data communities by engaging with these communities at the local, national, and international levels (e.g. DLI, ACMLA, IASSIST and OCUL’s Data and Geo Communities).
- Share geospatial and data developments with the Brock Library, as well as Brock’s community of students and researchers.
- Support the development of data literacy, numeracy, and GIS skills though in-depth consultations, workshops, and instruction for individuals, groups and classes.
- Liaise with instructors to promote and facilitate the use of data and GIS in their courses.
- Support the Data Liberation Initiative (DLI) partnership between Statistics Canada and Brock University Library; and, as the DLI representative for Brock Library, advise users, download files, and provide appropriate support.
- Develop and maintain online learning objects and guides.
- Engage in outreach activities, events, and campus-wide strategic initiatives related to GIS/geospatial, and data services.
- Participate in special GIS and digital scholarship projects (e.g. digitization projects, building web apps using Esri products, QGIS etc.).
- Support the Library’s strategic goals through active membership on working groups and project teams.
- Participate in the development of recommendations for improvements in library-wide policies, procedures and services.
- Engage in professional development, scholarly activity, and service under the terms of the Collective Agreement.

This position is available as of April 1, 2021.

**Qualified candidates will possess the following:**
- A Master’s degree from an ALA-accredited library program or its equivalent
- Proficiency working with geospatial information systems (GIS), especially Esri suite of products: ArcMap; ArcPro; ArcGIS Online; Story Map technology; other web-based mapping tools
- Strong knowledge of licensed/open source geospatial data resources and unique file formats, with knowledge of GIS and data applications in a range of disciplines, coupled with knowledge of GIS and data applications in a range of disciplines coupled with knowledge of GIS and data applications in a range of disciplines.
- Demonstrated ability to advise users in a range of disciplines regarding the use of data.
- Demonstrated knowledge of map design and cartographic concepts.
- Understanding of quantitative and qualitative research methods, including survey methods and output, descriptive statistics and analysis of microdata.
- Ability to engage students and achieve learning outcomes through effective teaching techniques and the use of appropriate educational technologies.
- Understanding of assessment concepts and methods.
- Commitment to using new technologies to advance work goals and to enhance service.
- Understanding of government document organization and acquisition
- Ability to work collaboratively with colleagues both internal and external to the library.
- Demonstrated flexibility and ability to manage a diverse workload.
- Effective analytical, problem-solving, communication and interpersonal skills.
- Self-directed, with an ability to balance initiative and independent decision-making with collaboration and consultation.
- Strong organizational skills.
- Strong service orientation.

**Qualifications Considered an Asset:**
- Undergraduate degree in geography or related discipline, such as geomatics.
- College diploma in Geographic Information Systems, Geographic Management or equivalent.
- Familiarity with quantitative and qualitative statistical software packages.
- Awareness of the importance of inclusivity, accessibility, reconciliation and decolonization to academic libraries.
- Knowledge of government publications and legal information sources, with an emphasis on Ontario and Canada.
- Familiarity with digital scholarship trends, tools, and techniques.
- Familiarity with data visualization trends, tools and techniques.
- Experience with project management.

**Compensation:**

Brock University offers a competitive salary and an attractive benefits package. It is anticipated that this appointment will be made at the rank of Librarian I or II. Salary and rank will be commensurate with experience and qualifications. The position is included in the Brock University Faculty Association (BUFA) and is governed by the BUFA Collective Agreement ( https://www.bufa.ca/resources/bufa-collective-agreement/ ).