+++
title = "Data Science Librarian"
employer = "Williams College"
employerurl = "https://williams.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://staff-careers.williams.edu/psp/cangate/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/c/HRS_HRAM.HRS_APP_SCHJOB.GBL?Page=HRS_APP_JBPST&Action=U&FOCUS=Applicant&SiteId=1&JobOpeningId=301976&PostingSeq=1"
postdate = "2021-08-04"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
Job Title
: Data Science Librarian

Location
: Williams Campus,Williamstown

Full-Time, Regular

**Opening Details**

Williams Libraries seeks an enthusiastic, user-centered educator to join the Research Services department as Data Science Librarian. In this newly-defined position, the Data Science Librarian will enhance the library’s information literacy initiative by bringing a focus on data literacy. You will help students develop data literacy skills and support data-intensive courses and departments. As liaison librarian, you will guide students and faculty on research methods and resources, teach library instruction sessions, and develop library collections. This is a full-time, year-round appointment, reporting to the Head of Research Services and Library Outreach.

Williams, a liberal arts college located in western Massachusetts, has built its reputation on outstanding teaching, scholarship, and academic excellence. We are committed to building a diverse and inclusive community to support our approximately 2,000 students, where members from all backgrounds can live, learn and thrive. 

The Research Services department supports the college’s academic mission by providing research assistance and teaching information literacy skills. We are dedicated to innovation and proactive user-driven services, and we value collegiality and collaboration. We believe in meeting students where they are in their information-seeking journey and helping them grow into empowered, information-literate citizens. We are looking for a colleague who:

- shares our passion for working with students and faculty and for teaching information/data literacy 
- embraces our commitment to critical pedagogy, data ethics/justice and action-oriented ways to further diversity, equity, and inclusion through their work
- welcomes the opportunities offered by this newly-created position: shaping the library’s first data literacy program and contributing to the development of the college’s new Data Science program. 
- thrives in a small, relationship-driven academic environment
- is excited to work with students who are broadly diverse with regard to gender, gender identity, race, ethnicity, nationality, sexual orientation, socioeconomic status, religion, and other dimensions of diversity

**Responsibilities**

- Design services and programs to support data literacy for undergraduate students by 
	- Developing and implementing training on data science research methods, tools, and best practices 
	- Guiding librarians on ways  to integrate data literacy in their library instruction
	- Working to raise awareness of data literacy, data resources and services provided by the library
- Support data-intensive courses and assignments across the disciplines by
	- Providing guidance to students/faculty on data research, analysis, interpretation and visualization
	- Collaborating with instructional technologists, digital humanities and quantitative skills colleagues on data support 
	- Consulting on students' data-intensive extracurricular projects
- Contribute to the development of a Data Science program (a College’s strategic priority)

As liaison to Computer Science, Economics, Geosciences, Mathematics & Statistics, the Data Science Librarian will:

- Help students in these departments develop as scholars by teaching them library research skills
- Teach instruction sessions aligned with ACRL’s Framework for Information Literacy for Higher Education 
- Work with faculty to develop library services and collections that support their teaching and research
- Partner with instruction technologists to provide coordinated support to faculty 

The Data Science Librarian supports the general research needs of the Williams community by staffing the research help services (in person and online). They participate in all Research Services’ initiatives and programs. They work on library’s and college’s teams and committees as relevant. 

The Data Science Librarian is expected to maintain awareness of evolving trends, tools and methods within data science, data literacy, and related areas, and to contribute to national, regional, and/or local associations and professional groups. Williams Libraries provides generous support for professional development.

**Qualifications**

- A Master’s degree is required. While we anticipate that many applicants will have an ALA accredited master’s in library/information science, we are also interested in folks with a relevant mix of education and experience
- Familiarity with data and digital humanities tools such SPSS, SAS, STATA, Nvivo, R/RStudio, Python, Javascript, and associated libraries for data analysis and visualization
- Knowledge of data research methods, sources of data (public and proprietary), data rights
- Experience working with quantitative and/or qualitative data
- Teaching experience and interest in working with undergraduate students
- Commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion, accessibility, data ethics/justice 
- Excellent communication, interpersonal, and problem-solving skills
- Ability to work both independently and collaboratively in a team-oriented organization
- Experience in higher education or academic librarianship would be beneficial but is not required

How to apply - Please apply through our website https://staff-careers.williams.edu/ and help us get to know you by addressing the following questions in your cover letter:

- What is your information/data literacy philosophy?
- How would you ground your work as Data Science Librarian in DEIA principles? 
- How have you explored and adapted new technologies/methodologies to progress your work? 
- How does teaching / helping others to use data align with your interests?

Application review will begin on September 1, 2021, and will continue until the position is filled. Pay starts around $60,000, commensurate with experience. Job band 2-E. 

**Conditions of Employment**

Employment at Williams is contingent on the verification of background information submitted by the applicant, including the completion of a criminal record check, and education when applicable.

**Equal Employment Opportunity**

Beyond meeting fully its legal obligations for non-discrimination, Williams College is committed to building a diverse and inclusive community where members from all backgrounds can live, learn and thrive. As part of this commitment, we will ensure that persons with disabilities are provided reasonable accommodations. If reasonable accommodation is needed to participate in the job application or interview process please feel free to contact us via phone at (413) 597-2681 or email at hr@williams.edu.