+++
title = "Database Administrator/ETL Developer"
employer = "ADA Health Policy Institute"
employerurl = "https://www.ada.org/en/science-research/health-policy-institute"
moreinfourl = "https://recruiting.ultipro.com/AME1086AMDA/JobBoard/e8a5a335-fd0c-acdf-b89a-2aa7d2f8be7f/OpportunityDetail?opportunityId=0f82e54a-4462-4449-9e2d-3f28163d44cf"
postdate = "2021-09-28"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
This position will be responsible for building, improving and updating key data sources used by ADA Health Policy Institute (HPI) researchers and serve as HPI’s go-to large data expert. This role will also work with other researchers in the team on specific data queries, provide periodic updates on key statistics from multiple data sources and perform other activities as needed, including survey development and research paper writing.

Full-Time/Chicago Office

**Minimum Qualifications:**

- Bachelor’s Degree in Statistics, economics, data analytics, epidemiology, data science, computer science or other quantitative disciplines, with 3 years of proven in/with building large datasets using multiple input files and managing or analyzing claims data or similar large datasets. In lieu of a Bachelor's Degree, 7 years of experience is required.
- Must have the ability to shift between multiple projects
- Must be able to work with different team members, seek feedback and clarification
- Must be able to think of creative and innovative ways to improve processes and deliverables.
- Must be detailed oriented
- Must have excellent communication, analytical and interpersonal skills.
- Must have knowledge of medical or dental insurance claims datasets (e.g., IBM Watson, Fair Health, Medicaid) and publicly available datasets (e.g., Census data, MEPS, NHANES, NHIS).
- Must be proficient in Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint)
- Must be proficient in other programming languages such as Microsoft SQL Server, R, and/or Python.
- Must be proficient in SAS, STATA, or similar programming language

**Highly Desirable Skills:**

- Experience with ETL tools such as Business Objects Data Services or Azure Data Factory.
- Proficient in Qualtrics or similar online survey tools

Equal Opportunity Employer/Protected Veterans/Individuals with Disabilities