+++
title = "Data Analysis Librarian"
employer = "Northwestern University"
employerurl = "https://northwestern.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://www.library.northwestern.edu/about/library-jobs/staff-jobs/job-detail.html#255"
postdate = "2021-07-09"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
Northwestern University Libraries seek a Data Analysis Librarian committed to innovative instruction and research support in data science. Joining a collaborative team of librarians and information professionals active in research services, teaching, and academic engagement, the Data Analysis Librarian will bring expertise and creativity to provide students, faculty, and campus partners specialized support in quantitative analysis, data acquisition, data management, bibliometrics, and other aspects of data-intensive research and teaching across the social sciences and other disciplines. Key opportunities of this position include providing individualized consultations to faculty, students, and staff in data analysis methods; designing and presenting workshops and classroom instruction on the use of quantitative statistical software programs; collaborating with the Office of Institutional Research, the Office of Research, and other campus units active in supporting and advancing research at Northwestern; and contributing to the development and delivery of new services that support research, teaching, and learning across the Libraries and the University.

**General Information**

Position Title: Data Analysis Librarian
: Job Title: Data Analysis Librarian
: Department: Research Services
: Percent Full Time: 100
: Job Status: Open

**Responsibilities:**

- Engage directly with faculty and students to provide innovative instruction and expert research assistance in data analysis, discovery, visualization, management, and other aspects of applied data science in the social sciences and other disciplines.
- Through in-person and virtual environments, develop and deliver workshops and other educational programs centered on data science and analysis.
- Evaluate academic needs in data analysis and collaborate with faculty to integrate data science in classroom teaching, assignments, and support for independent learning.
- Partner with faculty, other librarians, and technical specialists to promote awareness and application of data-analysis resources and services in curricula and research.
- Work with the Data Services Librarian, other members of the Research Services workgroup, and colleagues in Instruction & Curriculum Support, Assessment & Planning, Academic Engagement, and other library workgroups to design a curriculum of data literacy and competencies that align with student learning goals and the research needs of the university.
- Contribute to research-impact initiatives with the Office of Institutional Research, the Office of Research, and other campus units to understand, assess, visualize, and report impactful outcomes of research and publishing.
- Depending on background and service needs, serve as a liaison to one or more academic or other university constituencies.
- Serve as an active member of the Libraries’ staff, including participation on committees and other bodies as appropriate.
- Engage in appropriate professional development, continuing education, professional service, and research activities.

**Required Qualifications:**

- Strong commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility
- Ability to work in a collaborative team-based environment
- Excellent oral and written communication skills
- Adaptable, ability to adjust to changing environment
- Customer-focused
- Takes ownership of work, completes what is needed without being asked, follows through
- Plans ahead, manages time well, is resource-conscious, finds better ways to achieve personal and workgroup goals

**Minimum Qualifications:**

- Graduate degree in social science, statistics, informatics, applied mathematics, librarianship, or other relevant research-oriented discipline
- Expertise in social-science data methods, quantitative analysis and visualization techniques, and pertinent programming languages including R or Python
- Experience providing user support in an academic environment through group instruction, individual consultations, or other modes of teaching and engagement
- Familiarity with bibliometrics, altmetrics, and related methods of research analysis and assessment
- Awareness of current and emerging trends in data acquisition, analysis, and visualization
 
**Information for Applicants**

Location: Evanston

Apply for this job online through the Office of Human Resource’s Careers Portal. You will need to locate this job to get started; conduct an advanced search of all jobs and enter the Job ID above in the “Job Opening ID” field.

**Equal Opportunity**

Northwestern University is an Equal Opportunity, Affirmative Action Employer of all protected classes, including veterans and individuals with disabilities. Women, racial and ethnic minorities, individuals with disabilities, and veterans are encouraged to apply. Hiring is contingent upon eligibility to work in the United States.