+++
title = "Data Project Manager - Child and Family Archive"
employer = "Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research"
employerurl = "https://www.childandfamilydataarchive.org/cfda/pages/cfda/index.html"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.umich.edu/job_detail/195164/data_project_manager"
postdate = "2021-03-10"
archivedate = "2021-03-11"
draft = "false"
+++

How to Apply

A cover letter is required for consideration for this position and should be attached to your resume. Your cover letter should address your specific interest in the position and outline experience that directly relates to this position. (Applications without cover letters will not be considered.)
Job Summary

The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research, the world's largest archive of social science data, is now accepting applications for a Data Project Manager to manage the Child and Family Data Archive in close coordination with the Senior Data Project Manager on the project.

You will have primary managerial responsibility for data acquisition, user support and outreach, and reporting. This will include reaching out to potential data depositors, supporting data producers as they deposit data with us, prioritizing data curation work and monitoring its progress, supporting users as they work with our data, and facilitating data trainings to maximize data's value to researchers.


Responsibilities

Project Administration

In collaboration with the Senior Data Project Manager, you'll provide administrative and managerial guidance of project activities. This includes ensuring that project deliverables are met on time and on-budget, and communicating with the funder on project activities.

Data Acquisitions and Management of Confidential Data

You'll review incoming data deposits and ensure curation work is carried out according to the project's priorities. This includes assisting data producers in the successful deposit of their data and collecting and managing information about potential and existing data depositors. You'll also implement and ensure adherence with our policies for handling confidential data.

User Support and Outreach

You will work with our Web team and IT unit to develop and test tools, systems, and websites. You'll also provide technical assistance to our data users and develop promotional materials, create learning guides, coordinate conference arrangements, and present at conferences and through webinars.
Required Qualifications

    Bachelor's degree in social sciences, education, information science, or related field
    4+ years (2-3 years for Associate level) experience related to the responsibilities of the position
    Knowledge of current issues related to data management and archiving
    Experience with statistical applications such as SAS, SPSS, or R

Desired Qualifications

    Master's degree in social sciences, education, information science, or related field
    Experience with data curation and processes to prepare data for sharing with other researchers
    Knowledge of current issues and developments related to early care and education research in the United States
    Familiarity with contract-based research administration processes, especially those related to Federal data sharing requirements.
    Knowledge of confidentiality, disclosure, and related issues regarding the distribution of social science data
    Experience in a research setting including a data archive or academic library
    Experience conducting education research or using education research data

Underfill Statement

This posting may be filled at the Intermediate or Associate level, depending on qualifications.


Additional Information

The Institute for Social Research (ISR) at the University of Michigan seeks to recruit and retain a diverse workforce as a reflection of our commitment to serve the diverse people of Michigan, to maintain the excellence of the university, and to ground our research in varied disciplines, perspectives, and ways of knowing and learning.

Reporting

You will report to Chelsea Goforth, Project Management and User Support Lead.

Benefits

In addition to a career filled with purpose and opportunity, U-M offers a comprehensive benefits package to help you stay well, protect yourself and and eligible family members, and plan for a secure future. Benefits include generous time off; retirement plan with two-for-one matching contributions after the first year; many choices for comprehensive health insurance; life insurance; long-term disability coverage; and flexible spending accounts for healthcare and dependent care expenses.Learn more about U-M benefits.
Application Deadline

Job openings are posted for a minimum of seven calendar days.  The review and selection process may begin as early as the eighth day after posting. This opening may be removed from posting boards and filled anytime after the minimum posting period has ended.


U-M EEO/AA Statement

The University of Michigan is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.








Job Opening ID  
195164

Working Title  
Data Project Manager

Job Title  
Research Area Specialist Inter

Work Location  
Ann Arbor Campus  
Ann Arbor, MI

Full/Part Time  
Full-Time

Regular/Temporary  
Regular

FLSA Status  
Exempt

Organizational Group  
Inst Soc Research

Department  
ICPSR - Project Management and

Posting Begin/End Date  
3/09/2021 – 3/30/2021

Salary  
$50,000.00 – $70,000.00

Career Interest  
Research


