+++
title = "Business Librarian"
employer = "University of Arkansas"
employerurl = "https://www.uark.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://uasys.wd5.myworkdayjobs.com/UASYS"
postdate = "2021-09-07"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
**Summary of Job Duties:**

The University of Arkansas Libraries invites nominations for and applications from energetic, flexible, and innovative candidates for the position of Business Librarian. We seek candidates who are receptive to change, foster new ideas, and are collaborative. Additional key attributes include creating successful partnerships with other university departments and stakeholders and providing excellent services.

The Business Librarian serves as a member of the Research and Instruction Services team and will devise and deliver innovative services to support the instruction and research needs of students and faculty in the Sam M. Walton College of Business. The librarian also is expected to develop partnerships with the Office of Entrepreneurship & Innovation.

We are seeking candidates with broad business and entrepreneurship information skills. Liaison responsibilities include library instruction, research assistance, collection development, and academic outreach. Additionally, the Business Librarian collaboratively develops library programs and outreach initiatives with other members of the team. The position reports to the Director of Research and Instruction Services.

The successful candidate should possess an exemplary service orientation; work effectively in a diverse and changing environment; have strong interpersonal skills; work collaboratively with team members, other library colleagues, students, faculty, and staff; and possess effective oral and written communication skills. In addition to performance, research and service activities are required in keeping with the faculty requirements of the University of Arkansas.

We welcome applications from candidates that meet the minimum qualifications. Candidates are encouraged to highlight any experience or knowledge that speaks to the preferred qualifications including internships, courses and employment outside of libraries.

Rank: Tenure-track, twelve-month faculty appointment at the rank of Assistant Librarian / Assistant Professor or Associate Librarian / Associate Professor.

Benefits: Relocation allowance available. Benefits include TIAA or Fidelity Investments, 22 days of annual leave, tuition reduction, and health insurance.

**Qualifications:**

Minimum Qualifications:

- Master’s degree in library or information science from an ALA-accredited program
- Degree in business or significant experience providing business research services

Preferred Qualifications:

- Experience with business, economic, or statistical information resources
- Graduate degree in business
- Demonstrated experience providing research assistance and library instruction 
- Demonstrated subject knowledge and familiarity with business resources and research methodologies

**Salary Information:**

Commensurate with education and experience; Minimum $55,000

**Required Documents to Apply:**

Cover Letter/Letter of Application, List of three Professional References (name, email, business title), Resume

**Additional Information:**

Founded in 1871, the University of Arkansas is a land grant institution, classified by the Carnegie Foundation among the nation’s top 2 percent of universities with the highest level of research activity. The University of Arkansas works to advance Arkansas and build a better world through education, research and outreach by providing transformational opportunities and skills, promoting an inclusive and diverse culture and climate, and nurturing creativity, discovery and the spread of new ideas and innovations. Ten colleges and schools serve more than 27,600 students with 200+ academic programs. U of A students earn nationally competitive awards at an impressive rate and represent all 50 states and 120 countries.

The University of Arkansas campus is located in Fayetteville, a welcoming community ranked as one of the best places to live in the U.S. The growing region surrounding Fayetteville is home to numerous Fortune 500 companies and one of the nation’s strongest economies. Northwest Arkansas is also quickly gaining a national reputation for its focus on the arts and overall quality of life. Arkansas is a natural wonder of forests, mountains and lakes framed by picturesque rivers and streams. Some of the best outdoor amenities and most spectacular hiking trails are a short drive from campus.

The University Libraries share in the stewardship of the University’s goals and takes responsibility for the health of the research and teaching collections as well as programs that further support the academic mission. The University Libraries are comprised of Mullins Library and three branch libraries: Chemistry & Biochemistry, Fine Arts, and Physics, as well as two off-site facilities. For more information, visit the Libraries’ home page (https://libraries.uark.edu).
 
The Walton College of Business offers nine undergraduate majors, multiple Master’s and Ph.D. programs, and occupies four different buildings—Willard J. Walker Hall, the Business Building, the Donald W. Reynolds Center for Enterprise Development, and the J.B. Hunt Transport Services Center for Academic Excellence. It has been generously funded by donors, and has several endowments.  To find more information visit their website at https://walton.uark.edu/about/mission-vision-history.php#history

The University of Arkansas is an equal opportunity, affirmative action institution.  The University welcomes applications without regard to age, race/color, gender, pregnancy, national origin, disability, religion, marital or parental status, protected veteran status, military service, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender identity, or any other characteristic protected under applicable federal or state law.  Persons must have proof of legal authority to work in the United States on the first day of employment.  All applicant information is subject to public disclosure under the Arkansas Freedom of Information Act.