+++
title = "Data Scientist"
employer = "National Institutes of Health"
employerurl = "http://www.nih.gov"
moreinfourl = "https://www.usajobs.gov/GetJob/ViewDetails/588810800"
postdate = "2021-01-08"
archivedate = "2021-02-04"
draft = "false"
+++
The Office of the Chief Officer for Scientific Workforce Diversity is seeking an exceptional candidate to join the office and fill a Data Scientist position. 

Position Title/Series/Grade: Data Scientist GS-0601/14
: Pay scale & grade: GS 14
: Salary: $122,530 to $159,286 per year
: Appointment type: Permanent
: Work schedule: Full-Time
: Location: Montgomery County, MD

**Duties**

This position is located in the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), National Institutes of Health (NIH), Office of the Director (OD), Immediate Office of the Director (IMOD), Scientific Workforce Diversity (SWD) office.

The ideal candidate will be analytical minded and possess the tenacity to solve problems. The incumbent is expected to stay apprised of current technologies related to data analytics, scientific computing, and data systems.

**Responsibilitie**s

As a Data Scientist,your duties will include, but are not limited to the following:

- Provides provides leadership to meet SWD strategic goals that advance the, use of data science methods and tools for scientific discovery and promoting scientific workforce diversity to enhance the biomedical research enterprise.
- Identifies evaluates, and recommends tools, techniques, and methods to increase access to and utility of relevant datasets and knowledgebases
- Contributes to the integration of computer systems and services that provide an SWD wide data cyberinfrastructure for working with and collaborating around scientific data; in addition, supports efforts to enhance data integration between SWD and NIH systems.
- Develops roadmaps to shape long-term strategic goals for data and knowledge systems, especially in terms of handling large-scale and complex data systems.
- Designs and implements f computer-based solutions, including tools, techniques, and practices, that broaden the use of SWD data sets and knowledgebases and ensure access to research data throughout its lifecycle.

Occasional travel - You may be expected to travel for this position.

**Requirements**

Conditions of Employment

- U.S. Citizenship requirement or proof of being a U.S. National must be met by closing date. Employment is subject to the successful completion of the pre-appointment process (i.e., background investigation, verification of qualifications and job requirements, completion of onboarding forms, submission of required documents, etc.) Males born after December 31, 1959 must be registered with the Selective Service. Applicants must meet all qualifications requirements within thirty (30) calendar days of the closing date of this announcement, including time in grade. Position requires Education. Please provide a copy of your transcript. Please provide a copy of your latest SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action. 

**Qualifications**

In order to qualify for the Data Scientist GS-601 position at the GS-14 level, you must meet the following requirements:

**Education Requirement:** Bachelor's or graduate/higher level degree: major study in an academic field related to the medical field, health sciences or allied sciences appropriate to the work of the position. This degree must be from an educational program from an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained.

AND

**Additional Requirement:** You must demonstrate in your resume at least one (1) year of qualifying experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: developing tools and methods to extract, organize, integrate, interpret, and visualize data stored in data systems; developing tools for processing, reporting, and visualization of scientific data, including web-based applications, e.g., Javascript, Python Django apps, Tableau apps; and working with metadata standards and application of metadata in a biomedical research setting.

You will receive credit for all experience material to the position, including experience gained in religious, civic, welfare, service, and organizational activities, regardless of whether you received pay.

Do not copy and paste the duties, specialized experience, or occupational assessment questionnaire from this announcement into your resume as that will not be considered a demonstration of your qualifications for this position.

Preview assessment questionnaire before you apply: https://apply.usastaffing.gov/ViewQuestionnaire/11003725

**Education**

This position has an education requirement. You are strongly encouraged to submit a copy of your transcripts (or a list of your courses including titles, credit hours completed and grades). Unofficial transcripts will be accepted in the application package. Official transcripts will be required from all selectees prior to receiving an official offer.

**Required Documents**

RESUME:

Your resume must thoroughly describe how your skills and experiences align to the criteria defined in the "Qualifications" section of this announcement and it must support your responses to the assessment questionnaire. We cannot assume you have performed the necessary experience required for this position regardless of your employment history or academic career. To ensure all of the essential information is in your resume, we encourage you to use the USAJOBS online Resume Builder. If you choose to use your own resume, you must ensure it contains all of the required information and you organize it so we can associate the following information for each experience/position:

- Job title
- Name of employer
- Beginning and ending dates of employment (month/day/year format)
- Hours worked per week. We will assume full-time unless otherwise stated. We will prorate part-time employment in crediting experience.
- Detailed description of job duties, accomplishments, related skills, and responsibilities to include any supervisory/managerial responsibilities and number of staff supervised (if applicable)
- Series and grade or equivalent (if a federal position)



