+++
title = "Program Manager (and 2 other positions)"
employer = "WDS-IPO, University of Tennessee Oak Ridge Innovation Institute"
employerurl = "https://research.tennessee.edu/orii/"
moreinfourl = ""
postdate = "2021-12-21"
archivedate = "2021-12-28"
draft = "false"
+++
**WDS-IPO is hiring!**

The WDS-IPO has three positions now open. This announcement is focused specifically on the program manager, a very important position in supporting the mission of the WDS. Note that all are onsite in the Knoxville, TN area.

The WDS-IPO, hosted by the University of Tennessee - Oak Ridge Innovation Institute (UT-ORII), has three full-time positions available in the Knoxville, TN area. Click the title of each position to learn more and to apply.

- Program Manager: https://ut.taleo.net/careersection/ut_system/jobdetail.ftl?job=21000002IO&lang=en
- Communications Specialist: https://ut.taleo.net/careersection/ut_system/jobdetail.ftl?job=21000002IN&lang=en
- Administrative Assistant: https://ut.taleo.net/careersection/ut_system/jobdetail.ftl?job=21000002IK&lang=en

**Program Manager - Center For Info Studies**

The program manager will support International Program Office (IPO) of the World Data System (WDS) situated at UT-Oak Ridge Innovation Institute (UT-ORII). The WDS is a grant funded program that works to enable universal and equitable access to quality-assured scientific data, data services, products, and information. This employee will organize and monitor program activities which includes coordinating projects and deliverables defined by the executive director and the WDS Scientific Committee, federal grant management and budget support, managing internal and external stakeholder relationships (incl WDS membership), overseeing office operations, and providing guidance on strategies to ensure goals are met. The program manager will be a full-time employee of the University of Tennessee and shall report to the WDS-IPO Executive Director.

**Job Duties:**

project management: support the implementation of program and projects defined by the executive director (ED) and Scientific Committee (SC). 

- Ensure project deliverables and deadlines are met
- Coordinate and support ED and SC in conducting and completing their project activities
- Monitor projects according to policies, objectives, and relevant compliance of UT, WDS, and DOE (sponsor)
- Manage program data and documentation, including reports and/or papers generated by program activities and membership data
- Organize meetings both local, offsite, and virtual - includes the monthly WDS-SC teleconferences, WDS regional and disciplinary conferences, training workshops, International Data Week, and Data Repositories Day
- Collaborate with ED to set priorities and goals based on strategic vision
- In collaboration with the ED, establish internal office communication strategy and protocols and ensure successful communication operations - Provide suggestions and solutions for keeping deadlines and avoiding bottlenecks grant management
- Ensure sponsor deliverables are met and reports are submitted on time
- Support budget processing, including ledger reconciliation, budget changes
- Oversee the preparation and timely submission of new grant applications
- Ensure operations adhere to the program budget

**REQUIREMENTS:**

Education:

Bachelor's degree in communications, business or a related area required.

Master's degree in communications, business or a related area preferred.

Required level/type of experience:

bachelor’s degree in a relevant field, or an equivalent combination of education, training, and experience.

**Preferred knowledge, skills, and abilities:**

- Knowledge of the research data landscape
- understand government and granting agency regulations
- Knowledge of academic organizations

**Required level/type of experience:**

bachelor’s degree in a relevant field, or an equivalent combination of education, training, and experience.

**Competencies/Qualifications:**

- Be able to establish and maintain effective working relationships with individuals and groups
- demonstrate ability to determine compliance within policies and procedures.
- effectively lead daily office operations
- communicate effectively, both orally and in writing.
 
Job: Other Professional 
: Primary Location: US-Tennessee-knoxville 
: Organization: Ctr For Info Studies 
: Schedule: Full-time 
: Campus/Institute: Knoxville 
