+++
title = "Postdoctoral Associate"
employer = "Cornell University, Roper Center for Public Opinion Research"
employerurl = "https://ropercenter.cornell.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/19354?fbclid=IwAR0KOBiJKqKDohUW7ANe-P74VEW6aSavaj187Ksjj5tWPBS-bmyKd6eNwKU"
postdate = "2021-08-31"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
Position Title: Postdoctoral Fellow in Public Opinion and Survey Research
Position Location: Ithaca, New York, United States
Subject Area: Social Sciences / Research

The Roper Center for Public Opinion Research and the Cornell Center for the Social Sciences are seeking a Postdoctoral Associate in public opinion and survey research to help advance the research and strategic goals of the two centers.

The Postdoctoral Associate will have two primary responsibilities: (1) support Roper Center leadership in identifying and preparing grant proposals for competitive extramural funding, and (2) advise social and behavioral scientists on campus on issues of survey design, implementation, and analysis. In addition, the Postdoctoral Associate will be encouraged to develop a personal research program related to public opinion, to collaborate on research using data from the Roper Center archive, and to take advantage of the many internal and external mentoring opportunities Cornell affords to early career researchers.

The Postdoctoral Associate will be supervised by Dr. Jonathon P. Schuldt, Associate Professor in the Department of Communication and Interim Executive Director of the Roper Center, and Dr. Peter K. Enns, Professor in the Department of Government and the Robert S. Harrison Director of the Cornell Center for Social Sciences. The ideal candidate will have a strong background in survey methods, experience in conducting survey research, proficiency with at least one major statistical software package (R, Stata, SPSS), and will hold a Ph.D. in a relevant social or behavioral science discipline. The ideal candidate will have a track record of peer-reviewed publications. Responsibility, initiative, good judgment, and the ability to work well on a team are required.

This is a full-time, 12-month academic position to be appointed annually and offers a competitive salary and benefits package. Reappointment for a second year is possible contingent on successful performance, funding, and available work. The anticipated start date is anytime through August 2022, although January 2022 (or sooner) is highly preferred.

Interested applicants should submit: (1) a curriculum vitae, (2) a letter of interest, including a brief description of how this position relates to their career plans, (3) statement of contribution to diversity, equity, and inclusion, and (4) the names and contact information of three references using the AcademicJobsOnline portal. We will begin reviewing applications on October 1, 2021, and will continue until the position is filled.

**Required qualifications:**

- Ph.D. preferred and ABD required in a relevant social scientific discipline (e.g., Communication, Information Science, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology, etc.) 
- Strong background in quantitative research - Interest or experience in preparing grant proposals for extramural funding 
- Ability to conduct research both independently and collaboratively 
- Record of communicating research results via peer-reviewed publications and presentations 
- Willingness to consult with researchers across campus on their survey research projects

Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University’s heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. Cornell University is an innovative Ivy League university and a great place to work. Our inclusive community of scholars, students, and staff impart an uncommon sense of larger purpose, and contribute creative ideas to further the university's mission of teaching, discovery, and engagement.