+++
title = "Research Data System Manager"
employer = "Purdue University"
employerurl = "https://www.purdue.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.purdue.edu/job/West-Lafayette-Research-Data-System-Manager-IN-47906/814244100/"
postdate = "2021-11-23"
archivedate = "2022-07-01"
draft = "false"
+++
The Research Data System Manager is a subject matter expert who leads a multidisciplinary team to develop and support Purdue’s institutional data repository service. The Purdue University Research Repository (PURR) is a university core research facility provided by the Purdue University Libraries, the Office of the Executive Vice President for Research and Partnerships, and Information Technology and Purdue (ITaP). The mission of the PURR is to provide a platform and service for Purdue researchers to collaborate online and publish and archive datasets, to be preserved for long-term access and reuse, as a function of scholarly communication. This position coordinates and manages subscriptions and collections of research data for the Purdue Libraries and campus partners.

The successful candidate will supervise data repository staff, lead outreach efforts, and support and increase effective and strategic identification, coordination, acquisition, provisioning, and management of research data as a function of library collection development as well as services for the campus around planning, collaborating, producing, publishing, archiving, and measurement of the impact of research data. 

All university employees are afforded a generous benefits package including medical/dental/vision insurance, paid time off, and retirement contributions. As part of Purdue University’s expansive employee benefit package, the University is proud to offer its employees the opportunity to grow, learn, and advance by offering a tuition remission opportunity at both Purdue University and Purdue Global. 

To receive full consideration, please include a cover letter and link to your online portfolio with your application.