+++
title = "Research Data Engineer"
employer = "University of Pennsylvania"
employerurl = "https://www.upenn.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://wd1.myworkdaysite.com/en-US/recruiting/upenn/careers-at-penn/job/Van-Pelt-Library/Research-Data-Engineer_JR00044428"
postdate = "2021-12-17"
archivedate = "2021-12-28"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Pennsylvania, the largest private employer in Philadelphia, is a world-renowned leader in education, research, and innovation. This historic, Ivy League school consistently ranks among the top 10 universities in the annual U.S. News & World Report survey. Penn has 12 highly-regarded schools that provide opportunities for undergraduate, graduate and continuing education, all influenced by Penn’s distinctive interdisciplinary approach to scholarship and learning. As an employer Penn has been ranked nationally on many occasions with the most recent award from Forbes who named Penn one of America’s Best Employers By State in 2021.

Penn offers a unique working environment within the city of Philadelphia. The University is situated on a beautiful urban campus, with easy access to a range of educational, cultural, and recreational activities. With its historical significance and landmarks, lively cultural offerings, and wide variety of atmospheres, Philadelphia is the perfect place to call home for work and play.

The University offers a competitive benefits package that includes excellent healthcare and tuition benefits for employees and their families, generous retirement benefits, a wide variety of professional development opportunities, supportive work and family benefits, a wealth of health and wellness programs and resources, and much more.

COVID-19 vaccination is a requirement for all positions at the University of Pennsylvania. New hires are expected to be fully vaccinated before beginning work at the University. For more information about Penn’s vaccine requirements and the use of Penn Open Pass, visit the Penn COVID-19 Response website (https://coronavirus.upenn.edu/) for the latest information.

**Posted Job Title**

Research Data Engineer

**Job Profile Title**

Librarian B

**Job Description Summary**

The Research Data Engineer is a member of the Research Data and Digital Scholarship (RDDS) team at the University of Pennsylvania Libraries. Reporting to the Head, Research Data Services, and working alongside RDDS colleagues with expertise in data science, scholarly communication, text mining, design, digital cultural heritage, data visualization, and mapping, they will provide support to research teams, faculty, and students across campus on issues such as data management; data analysis; data literacy; data sharing, and compliance with funder and publisher mandates. The goal of the research data engineer is to help Penn community members better manage their research process so that they can (a) find, curate, and analyze data for their research; (b) effectively and efficiently conduct their research using digital tools and infrastructure and (c) produce well-documented, funder-compliant, and FAIR (findable, accessible, interoperable, and reusable) data, code, and publications.All Research Data and Digital Scholarship team members are expected and encouraged to dedicate one half-day a week to collaborative, creative, research, or professional development activities.The RDDS team values collaboration, transparency, equity, openness, and accessibility in their work and is looking for a colleague who shares their commitment to an inclusive, ethical, anti-racist praxis.

**RESPONSIBILITIES**

- With the guidance of the Head, Research Data Services and in collaboration with research support offices on campus, implement a service program that helps researchers manage the various aspects of the research data lifecycle in ways that prioritize FAIR data, ethical data gathering and processing, and reproducible research.

- Work with subject specialists, campus centers, and faculty to provide disciplinary-specific training opportunities, resources, and consultations in data literacy, research data management, data sharing, and working with quantitative and qualitative research data to the Penn community.

- In collaboration with subject specialists, provide training opportunities, resources, and consultations for researchers on tools, infrastructure, and best practices to improve research workflows at various stages of the research lifecycle.

- Stay current on changes to public and open access policy requirements and conversations about emerging infrastructure to support the publication and sharing of data and communicate these changes to research teams and researchers.

- Actively participate in local, regional, and national conversations about open science and research data management.

**QUALIFICATIONS**

Required

- Master’s degree in library and information science, quantitative social science, statistics, or other relevant discipline, and a minimum two years of related experience, or an equivalent combination of education and experience.

- Knowledge of best practices for sharing data, funder data management plan requirements, and data services needs across the research lifecycle.

- Familiarity with best practices for data sharing and publication.

- Interest in data ethics, data literacy, and data privacy.

- Familiarity with metadata schema as they relate to data.

- Experience creating engaging learning opportunities.

- Demonstrated experience conducting data services outreach and inreach.

- Demonstrated experience collaborating across divisions.

- Excellent communication and documentation skills.

- Demonstrated experience building and maintaining effective partnerships in a complex environment.

Preferred

- Demonstrated experience with programming languages for research such as R and Python.

- Experience working with data repositories and open data.

- Experience using statistical analysis software, such SAS, SPSS, or Stata.

**Application Requirement:**

A Cover Letter and Resume/CV are required to be considered for this position. Please upload your Cover Letter where it asks you to upload your Resume/CV; multiple documents are allowed.

**Budgeted Pay Range:**

$60,000 -- $65,000 commensurate with education and experience

Job Location - City, State: Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Department / School: University Library

Pay Range: $42,953.00 - $77,315.00

Affirmative Action Statement Penn adheres to a policy that prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, creed, national or ethnic origin, citizenship status, age, disability, veteran status, or any other legally protected class.

Special Requirements Background check required after a conditional job offer is made. Consideration of the background check will be tailored to the requirements of the job.

**University Benefits**

- Health, Life, and Flexible Spending Accounts : Penn offers comprehensive medical, prescription, behavioral health, dental, vision, and life insurance benefits to protect you and your family’s health and welfare. You can also use flexible spending accounts to pay for eligible health care and dependent care expenses with pre-tax dollars.

- Tuition : Take advantage of Penn's exceptional tuition benefits . You, your spouse, and your dependent children can get tuition assistance here at Penn. Your dependent children are also eligible for tuition assistance at other institutions.

- Retirement: Penn offers generous retirement plans to help you save for your future. Penn’s Basic, Matching, and Supplemental retirement plans allow you to save for retirement on a pre-tax or Roth basis. Choose from a wide variety of investment options through TIAA and Vanguard.

- Time Away from Work: Penn provides you with a substantial amount of time away from work during the course of the year. This allows you to relax, take vacations, attend to personal affairs, recover from illness or injury, spend time with family—whatever your personal needs may be.

- Long-Term Care Insurance: In partnership with Genworth Financial, Penn offers faculty and staff (and your eligible family members) long-term care insurance to help you cover some of the costs of long-term care services received at home, in the community or in a nursing facility. If you apply when you’re newly hired, you won’t have to provide proof of good health or be subject to underwriting requirements. Eligible family members must always provide proof of good health and are subject to underwriting.

- Wellness and Work-life Resources : Penn is committed to supporting our faculty and staff as they balance the competing demands of work and personal life. That’s why we offer a wide variety of programs and resources to help you care for your health, your family, and your work-life balance.

- Professional and Personal Development: Penn provides an array of resources to help you advance yourself personally and professionally.

- University Resources: As a member of the Penn community, you have access to a wide range of University resources as well as cultural and recreational activities. Take advantage of the University’s libraries and athletic facilities, or visit our arboretum and art galleries. There’s always something going on at Penn, whether it’s a new exhibit at the Penn Museum, the latest music or theater presentation at the Annenberg Center, or the Penn Relays at Franklin Field to name just a few examples. As a member of the Penn community, you’re right in the middle of the excitement—and you and your family can enjoy many of these activities for free.

- Discounts and Special Services : From arts and entertainment to transportation and mortgages, you'll find great deals for University faculty and staff. Not only do Penn arts and cultural centers and museums offer free and discounted admission and memberships to faculty and staff. You can also enjoy substantial savings on other goods and services such as new cars from Ford and General Motors, cellular phone service plans, movie tickets, and admission to theme parks.

- Flexible Work Hours: Flexible work options offer creative approaches for completing work while promoting balance between work and personal commitments. These approaches involve use of non-traditional work hours, locations, and/or job structures.

- Penn Home Ownership Services: Penn offers a forgivable loan for eligible employees interested in buying a home or currently residing in West Philadelphia, which can be used for closing costs or home improvements.

- Adoption Assistance: Penn will reimburse eligible employees on qualified expenses in connection with the legal adoption of an eligible child, such as travel or court fees, for up to two adoptions in your household. 
