+++
title = "Librarian for Economics"
employer = "Vanderbilt University"
employerurl = "https://www.vanderbilt.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://ecsr.fa.us2.oraclecloud.com/hcmUI/CandidateExperience/en/sites/CX/requisitions/job/10000493/"
postdate = "2021-10-25"
archivedate = "2021-12-28"
draft = "false"
+++
Vanderbilt University Libraries seek a Librarian for Economics to provide digital scholarship and subject expertise to faculty and students. We are looking for a dynamic information specialist who can develop and foster relationships with members of the Vanderbilt community. This will be done through active and systematic engagement with faculty and students in their offices, departments, and classrooms. The Librarian for Economics provides research and teaching support to faculty and students in the Vanderbilt School of Arts & Sciences.

The Jean and Alexander Heard Libraries are fundamental to the university’s goal of advancing scholarship and learning. We collect, preserve, and make accessible a wide variety of resources. We partner with faculty and students to shape research, and we encourage the development of informed scholars and engaged citizens.

**Duties and Responsibilities (updated October 2021)**

- Provide expert, in-depth reference, consultation, and information services to the
        Vanderbilt University community. Specifically, the Department of Economics.
- Actively engage with the faculty and students in their classrooms, offices, and the
        Digital Commons to bring information science and expertise to
        faculty and students where they work.
- Serve as a key member of the Faculty Digital Commons outreach team, providing
        education and consultation on digital tools
- Develop and deliver innovative consultation services, drawing on established and
        emerging computational research methods.
- Develop programs to provide expert research support at all stages of the research life
        cycle.
- Teach workshops on economics data use and analysis as well as specialized software
        and resource applications.
- Help build and deliver an information literacy program that is integrated into the
        Economics curriculum.
- Manage the economics resources and collections.
- Identify and develop outreach and engagement events that are aligned with campus
        strategic initiatives.
- Represent the library locally, regionally, and nationally.
- Have knowledge of current research practices in economics.
- Actively contribute to the information science profession in the area of economics and
        social science librarianship.

**Qualifications (updated October 2021)**

- Master’s Degree in Library and Information Science from an ALA accredited institution
        is preferred.
- Advanced degree in related discipline is preferred. 2-5 years’ experience in an
        academic research library is preferred.
- Knowledge in using emerging technologies to enhance the delivery of information
        services.
- Demonstrated ability with tools that support research, e.g. bibliometrics, data
        curation, network analysis and Open Access Publication.
- Working knowledge of related tools, such as Python, R, Bibliometrix, ORCHID, and/or
        SSRN
- Knowledge of current research practices in economics and/or social sciences.
- Outstanding communication skills and a demonstrated ability to effectively teach and
        present.
- Demonstrated ability to work independently and collaboratively on teams.
- Ability to manage multiple priorities in a fast-paced and changing environment.

It is strongly preferred that all applicants include a cover letter and resume/CV as part of their application materials when applying for this position.

**Commitment to Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion**

At Vanderbilt University, we are intentional about and assume accountability for fostering advancement and respect for equity, diversity, and inclusion for all students, faculty, and staff. Our commitment to diversity makes us who we are.  We have created a community that celebrates differences and lets individuality thrive. As part of this commitment, we actively value diversity in our workplace and learning environments as we seek to take advantage of the rich backgrounds and abilities of everyone. The diverse voices of Vanderbilt represent an invaluable resource for the University in its efforts to fulfill its mission and strive to be an example of excellence in higher education.

Vanderbilt University is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. Women, minorities, people with disabilities, and protected veterans are encouraged to apply.

Please note, all candidates selected for an offer of employment are subject to pre-employment background checks, which may include but are not limited to, based on the role for which they have been selected: criminal history, education verification, social media review, motor vehicle records, credit history, and professional license verification.

**About Us**

Vanderbilt is a community of talented and diverse staff & faculty!

At Vanderbilt University, our work - regardless of title or role - is in service to an important and noble mission in which every member of our community serves in advancing knowledge and transforming lives on a daily basis. Located in Nashville, Tennessee, on a 330+ acre campus and arboretum dating back to 1873, Vanderbilt is proud to have been named as one of “America’s Best Large Employers” as well as a top employer in Tennessee and the Nashville metropolitan area by Forbes for several years running. We welcome those who are interested in learning and growing professionally with an employer that strives to create, foster and sustain opportunities as an employer of choice through:

- Working and growing together as a community of communities... we are One
        Vanderbilt.
- Providing a work environment where every staff and faculty member can be their
        authentic and best self, while providing the resources and
        opportunities to learn and grow.
- Encouraging development, collaboration, and partnership both internally and
        externally while fostering the value that every member of the Vanderbilt
        community can lead and grow regardless of title or position.

We understand you have a choice when choosing where to work and pursue a career. We understand you are unique and have a story. We want to hear it. We encourage you to apply today so that you might become a part of our story.

Vanderbilt University has made the safety of our students, faculty and staff, and our surrounding communities a top priority. As part of that commitment, the University recently announced that students, faculty, and staff, are required to be vaccinated against COVID. As a prospective and/or a new employee at Vanderbilt, you will be required to comply with the University’s vaccination protocol. Effective, August 1, 2021, proof of full vaccination or an approved accommodation will be required before the start of employment in order to work at Vanderbilt University.

Accommodations for medical and religious exemptions can be requested with the Equal, Opportunity and Access Office. https://www.vanderbilt.edu/eoa/