+++
title = "Open Access Librarian"
employer = "Emory University"
employerurl = "https://www.emory.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://apply.interfolio.com/97307"
postdate = "2021-11-11"
archivedate = "2021-12-28"
draft = "false"
+++
The Emory University Libraries seek an Open Access Librarian to contribute to our growing scholarly communications program and to further our commitment to open access (OA) and open educational practices (OEPs). The ideal candidate will be someone who is interested in helping us develop innovative approaches to OA and OEP outreach, promotion, and education; who shares the Libraries’ commitment to social justice; who is committed to student and faculty success; and who is able to work successfully in a collaborative environment.

**Application Procedures**

Interested candidates should review the applications requirements and apply online at apply.interfolio.com/97307.

Applications may be submitted as Word or PDF attachments and must include:

- Current resume/vita detailing education and relevant experience;
- Cover letter of application describing qualifications and experience; and
- Diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) are a central focus of our work at Emory Libraries and across our campus, and the incumbent for this position will need to communicate how open access and open educational practices affect social justice/DEI issues. Please write a statement of no more than 500 words addressing this topic and describe how your DEI values serve as a foundation for this work. 
- On a separate document list the names, email addresses, and telephone numbers of 3 professional references including a current or previous supervisor.   

Candidates applying by November 30, 2021 will receive priority consideration.  Review of applications will continue until position is successfully filled. Emory is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer that welcomes and encourages diversity and seeks applications and nominations from women, minorities, people with disabilities and veterans.