+++
title = "Data Literacy and Learning Specialist"
employer = "Georgia State University"
employerurl = "https://www.gsu.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://library.gsu.edu/files/2021/08/Data_Literacy_and_Learning_Specialist_Announcement_final.pdf"
postdate = "2021-08-30"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
Library Faculty Position, Atlanta Campus 
**Position & Responsibilities**

The Georgia State University Library seeks an intellectually curious and innovative colleague to join us as the Data Literacy and Learning Specialist. If you are passionate about igniting a passion for data in others, this position is for you! 

The Data Literacy and Learning Specialist is a part of a growing Research Data Services (RDS) Team with expertise to support qualitative and quantitative data collection, analysis, visualization, and management across academic disciplines (details at library.gsu.edu/data). The Data Literacy and Learning Specialist will foster data literacy skills development and awareness of the value of these skills for career readiness among Georgia State University (GSU) undergraduates. We welcome data professionals eager to work with undergraduate students at all levels in learning the data-related tools and skills needed to succeed in college and career, and to partner with faculty members to support integration of data literacy into their teaching.

The Data Literacy and Learning Specialist will lead data literacy outreach and learning efforts targeting undergraduates at all GSU campuses and across all disciplines. Their work will focus on increasing undergraduate use of Research Data Services (RDS) current offerings and, in collaboration with the RDS Team and others, on creating new learning opportunities targeted specifically to undergraduates. They will provide individual and small-group consultations, workshops, and course-embedded instruction in data information and resource use, and will explore opportunities for increasing virtual learning modes (e.g., video tutorials, digital credentials). They will capitalize on existing partnerships with campus initiatives, such as the University Library’s PIDLit: Public Interest Data Literacy initiative, the College to Career initiative, and the Digital Learners to Leaders initiative, and seek new connections with relevant campus initiatives and programs working toward student success aims. 

Additional duties (up to 10% of work commitment) may be assigned to this position based on the candidate’s background, experience, and interests.

The position serves as a member of the library faculty (12-month, non-tenure track), holds faculty rank, and is expected to participate in research, professional development, and service activities as outlined in the University Library’s faculty guidelines. The library is committed to providing exceptional professional development opportunities to its employees. 

**Environment**

The University Library, Atlanta Campus, provides one of the most attractive, open, and inviting educational facilities in the Southeast. With over 1.5 million annual visitors in 2019, the Library is an integral part of the University community. The Library is a valued partner within the campus community, offering a modern, inviting, and centralized facility supporting both teaching and research with extensive collections and outstanding assistance. Its signature Link, a multilevel glass structure that overlooks downtown Atlanta, connects the Library’s two prominent buildings. CURVE (curve.gsu.edu) located in Library South, brings together students and expert researchers from all disciplines in a shared, hands-on, interactive space featuring cutting-edge hardware and software for data visualization and analysis. For additional information about the Georgia State University Library, visit library.gsu.edu. 

Georgia State University, an innovative urban public research university, is a national leader in graduating students from widely diverse backgrounds. Georgia State readies students for professional pursuits, educates future leaders and prepares citizens for lifelong learning. Enrolling one of the most diverse student bodies in the nation at its downtown research campus, at its vibrant branch campuses and online, the university provides educational opportunities for more than 54,000 students at the graduate, baccalaureate, associate and certificate levels. For additional information about Georgia State University, visit gsu.edu. 

**Required Qualifications**

- Master’s degree or higher from a relevant field 
- Experience teaching with data, with an emphasis on undergraduate students 
- Commitment to undergraduate teaching and learning of data literacy skills 
- Ability to articulate the value of data literacy skills for career readiness 
- Strong ability to work effectively within a culturally diverse environment 
- Ability to work collaboratively with multiple stakeholders 
- Excellent communication, presentation, and interpersonal skills 

**Preferred Qualifications**

- Experience providing both in-person and online instruction 
- Instructional design or curriculum development experience 

If you feel that you don’t meet these preferred qualifications, don’t let a confidence gap stop you from applying. Sometimes a list of preferred qualifications can miss the elements that would most strengthen our team; we value the many different skills which make all of us unique. 

**Condition of Work and Benefits**

Twelve-month assignment  Faculty rank and status  Non-tenure track  Health and retirement benefits  Support for research and professional activities   

**Salary and Rank**

Salary range from $50,000-$65,000, dependent on experience, education and faculty rank. Appointment at faculty rank (Instructor/Assistant/Associate Professor) is on a 12-month contract renewal basis. 

**To Apply**

Please submit: (1) a statement of interest in the position, including addressing the above qualifications; (2) curriculum vitae; and (3) contact information for three current references c/o the Library’s Human Resources Officer, liblao@gsu.edu, (404) 413-2712. 

Review of materials will begin immediately, with complete applications received by September 30, 2021, receiving full consideration.  

Any offer of employment at Georgia State University is contingent upon successful completion of a criminal background investigation. Georgia State University is an Equal Opportunity Employer and does not discriminate against applicants due to race, ethnicity, gender, veteran status, or on the basis of disability or any other federal, state or local protected class.