+++
title = "Program Director Scholarship Tools and Methods"
employer = "UC San Diego"
employerurl = "https://ucsd.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://apol-recruit.ucsd.edu/JPF02790"
postdate = "2021-08-12"
archivedate = "2021-09-29"
draft = "false"
+++
**Position title:** Program Director Scholarship Tools and Methods

**Salary range:** $58,365 - $140,603

**Application Window:**

- Open date: July 1st, 2021

- Last review date: Tuesday, Aug 31, 2021 at 11:59pm (Pacific Time)
- Applications received after this date will be reviewed by the search committee if the position has not yet been filled.
- Final date: Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 at 11:59pm (Pacific Time)
- Applications will continue to be accepted until this date, but those received after the review date will only be considered if the position has not yet been filled.

**Position description**

Program Director, Scholarship Tools and Methods

The University of California, San Diego Library seeks creative, collaborative, and service-oriented applicants for the position of Program Director (PD), Scholarship Tools and Methods (STM). The STM PD leads staff who are engaged in a range of activities including but not limited to; developing digital content, supporting our digital repository and related services and initiatives, providing format expertise for content migration, exploring new and emerging formats, scholarly communications services and more. This position offers opportunities to provide leadership in strategic program development and to participate in delivering STM services to a diverse range of users. STM and its Program Director are engaged in dynamic work that is shaping emerging areas of library service in the years ahead.

Administrative (80%)

This position serves as the Director of the Scholarship Tools and Methods Program reporting to the Associate University Librarian for Scholarly Resources and Services (AUL SRS). This position is responsible for leading the administration and operations of the program including digital initiatives and related format services including reformatting. Supports Scholarly Communications services, the Data / GIS Lab, and the Digital Media Lab. Coordinates the development of digital collection and exhibit project proposals. Stewards digital collection development by reviewing proposals, applying appropriate project planning and coordinating reformatting, metadata development, object build and content release. Supports the evolution of the UC San Diego Library Digital Asset Management System (DAMS) and related tools. Provides for the appropriate metrics and assessment of digital assets; their presentation, discovery, use and preservation.

Engages opportunities to utilize digital initiatives to better disseminate scholarly resources to historically underserved communities. Partners with other programs and Library Leadership to support efforts to enhance access to lower cost learning materials. Supports University of California and UC San Diego Library engagement in the area of open access publishing. Works closely with partner programs to create broad strategies that align and support digital asset management and publishing work.

The program consists of approximately 14 FTE. Directly supervises 2 career academic and 3 classified staff. Formulates and monitors program goals, initiatives and special projects. Controls program budgets and approves expenditures, establishes program policies. Has authority for program personnel activities including staff recruitment, performance evaluations and staff development. Works closely and collaboratively across programs especially with Metadata Services, Technology and Digital Services, Special Collections and Archives and Research Data Curation. Ensures STM policies, workflows, and accomplishments are documented via our intranet (LiSN), the Library Weekly Update, and elsewhere as required.

Committees and Meetings (20%)

Represents STM on Library Leadership Council, Digital Library Steering Committee, Digital Collections Group, SRS Program Directors Group, other committees as required or appointed by the AUL SRS.

Other

Participates in Library wide planning and special initiatives, serves on screening and search committees, is active professionally in the academic library digital initiatives community in the University of California and at the national level.

**About The Library – Great Research Starts Here**

The UC San Diego Library, one of the nation's top public academic libraries, plays a critical role in advancing and supporting the university's research, teaching, patient care, and public service missions. The Library provides the foundation of knowledge needed to advance cutting-edge discoveries in a wide range of disciplines--from healthcare and science to public policy and the arts. The Library provides access to more than 7 million items, including digital and print volumes, journals, and multimedia materials to meet the knowledge demands of scholars, students, and members of the public.

Librarians at UC San Diego are academic appointees and entitled to appropriate professional leave and all other perquisites granted to non-faculty academic personnel. UC San Diego Librarians are expected to participate in library-wide and system-wide planning and governance and to be professionally active. To foster the best possible working and learning environment, all library staff at UC San Diego strive to cultivate a rich and diverse academic environment, inclusive of students, faculty, and staff of varying social, economic, cultural and ethnic backgrounds, and those with disabilities. For more information, please review the UC San Diego Principles of Community. We also encourage the opportunity to build a network of peers that share your similar passions and interests through the UCSD Staff Associations network.

**About the Program** 

The Scholarship Tools and Methods Program (STM) provides support and direction for the content, services and products employed by scholarship and research. This includes broad support for the development of digital asset and initiatives strategy, content transformation and management, and research and education. Complementing this role, STM staff support specific existing and emerging format types that impact interdisciplinary study and research; including but not limited to data sets, geospatial, interactive, and 3D content. STM is broadly collaborative, and works with Library colleagues, students, faculty, staff, researchers and stakeholders both local and global to meet its charge.

**Benefits**

UC San Diego Library knows the value of finding the right talent, and offers a robust relocation and professional development package, along with comprehensive health and retirement benefits.

Your employment decisions may also involve dual career considerations. For this reason, we provide online and in-person career and relocation assistance to spouses and partners of academic appointees in our Partner Opportunities Program. [https://aps.ucsd.edu/recruitment/pop/index.html]

**About the University**

With 36,400 students, UC San Diego is dedicated to the advancement of knowledge through excellence in education and research. UC San Diego has been recognized as one of the top 10 public universities in the nation by US News & World Report, as well as one of the top schools for medical research. UC San Diego is also in the top 10 of all universities in the nation in receiving federal R&D research grants.

**To Apply**

Applications will begin being reviewed on 07/30/21 and the position will remain open until filled. For full consideration, applications must include the following:

- A short application letter addressing your interest in this position and applicable qualifications
- A resume of education and relevant experience
- The names of at least three persons who are knowledgeable about your qualifications and/or suitability for this position
- A personal statement summarizing your past or planned contributions to diversity; guidance for preparing diversity statements can be found at: Center for Faculty Diversity and Inclusion

Compensation: Salary and level of appointment in the Librarian series commensurate with qualifications and experience and based on the University of California pay scales.

Partner Opportunities Program: UC San Diego recognizes that your employment decisions may involve dual career considerations. UCSD provides online and in-person career and relocation assistance to spouses and partners of academic appointees.

**Qualifications**

Basic qualifications (required at time of application)

- MLS/MLIS or equivalent advanced degree. Other appropriate degree or equivalent experience in one or more fields related to library services may be substituted.
- Experience recruiting, supervising, evaluating and developing diverse staff in a library setting.

- Ability to set priorities, make informed decisions, and build team motivation and consensus.

- Experience guiding the development of digital content at a research library, stewardship of format migration services, and the exploration of new and emerging formats and tools related to digital learning environments.

- Excellent analytical and organizational skills and ability to plan, document, and complete projects.
- Excellent interpersonal and communication skills.
- Demonstrated success in a work environment where planning, communication and diplomacy foster aligned priorities between multiple groups.

- Demonstrated cultural competence and ability to provide leadership in ways that center equitable and inclusive practices.
- Professional service or scholarship in the areas of digital initiatives, digital repositories, scholarly communications, and / or format migration / emerging format development.

- Commitment to excellence in service and ability to work both independently and collaboratively with faculty, students, staff and colleagues from diverse backgrounds and cultures.

**Preferred qualifications**

- Demonstrated experience proposing and managing a budget that includes technology investment and operational costs.
- Three or more years of supervisory experience in an academic or research library.
- Demonstrated ability to guide professional growth and develop leadership skills of librarians.
- Demonstrated success leading change in an organization.
- Experience with organizational strategic planning.

**Application Requirements**

Document requirements

- Curriculum Vitae - Your most recently updated C.V.

- Cover Letter

- Statement of Contributions to Diversity - Applicants should summarize their past or potential contributions to diversity. See our Faculty Equity site for more information.

- Misc / Additional (Optional)

Reference requirements

- 3 required (contact information only)

Apply link: https://apol-recruit.ucsd.edu/JPF02790

**Campus Information**

The University of California, San Diego is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer advancing inclusive excellence. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, covered veteran status, or other protected categories covered by the UC nondiscrimination policy.

As a condition of employment, you will be required to comply with the University of California SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) Vaccination Program Policy. All Covered Individuals under the policy must provide proof of Full Vaccination or, if applicable, submit a request for Exception (based on Medical Exemption, Disability, and/or Religious Objection) or Deferral (based on pregnancy) no later than the applicable deadline. For new University of California employees, the applicable deadline is eight weeks after their first date of employment.

The University of California prohibits smoking and tobacco use at all University controlled properties.
