+++
title = "Liaison Librarian for History and Modern Languages"
employer = "Carnegie Mellon University"
employerurl = "https://www.cmu.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://apply.interfolio.com/102262"
postdate = "2022-03-01"
archivedate = "2022-06-01"
draft = "false"
+++
Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) Libraries in Pittsburgh, PA invites applications from qualified candidates for three faculty positions: Liaison Librarian for Architecture, Liaison Librarian for Engineering, and Liaison Librarian for History and Modern Languages.

Flexibility, excellence, and passion are vital qualities within the University Libraries. Inclusion, collaboration and cultural sensitivity are valued competencies at CMU. Therefore, we are in search of team members who are able to effectively interact with a varied population of internal and external partners at a high level of integrity. We are looking for individuals who share our values and who will support the mission of the university through their work. 

We strongly encourage applications from members of groups that have been marginalized and/or underrepresented in academic librarianship and who will contribute to the breadth of our organization.

**Application Instructions:**

To be considered for a liaison librarian position, please submit a resume, cover letter, diversity statement and contact information for three academic or professional references with your application online through Interfolio.

Please visit "Why Carnegie Mellon" to learn more about becoming part of an institution inspiring innovations that change the world. Please visit CMU Libraries to find out more about our work. Please visit the relevant department or school websites to learn more about education and research priorities.

A listing of employee benefits is available at: www.cmu.edu/jobs/benefits-at-a-glance/ 

Carnegie Mellon University further seeks to meet the needs of dual-career couples and is a member of the Higher Education Recruitment Consortium (HERC) that assists with dual-career searches.

**Equal Employment Opportunity Statement:**

Carnegie Mellon University shall abide by the requirements of 41 CFR §§ 60-1.4(a), 60-300.5(a) and 60-741.5(a). These regulations prohibit discrimination against qualified individuals based on their status as protected veterans or individuals with disabilities, and prohibit discrimination against all individuals based on their race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. Moreover, these regulations require that covered prime contractors and subcontractors take affirmative action to employ and advance in employment individuals without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, protected veteran status or disability. 

### Liaison Librarian for History and Modern Languages

**Description:**

This role involves the provision of services to support education and research in the Department of History, home to 34 faculty, and to 42 students enrolled in three baccalaureate degree programs, and a doctoral program. The successful candidate will also be responsible for provision of services to support education and research in the Department of Modern Languages, home to 35 faculty, and to 21 students enrolled in three baccalaureate degree programs, and a doctoral program.

**Qualifications:**

Accredited degree in library and information science and/or a PhD or advanced degree in history or a closely related field. Previous experience in academic libraries or in historical research and education are highly desirable. Some second language study is strongly preferred.

We invite you to apply if you have experience in one or more of the following areas:

- History and/or modern languages librarianship or information management
- History and/or modern languages education, research, or professional practice
- Research data management or digital curation or digital humanities, preferably in history and/or modern languages or associated fields
- Academic librarianship in a research-intensive university