+++
title = "Statistician/Data Scientist"
employer = "Harvard Business School"
employerurl = "https://www.harvard.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://sjobs.brassring.com/TGnewUI/Search/Home/Home?partnerid=25240&siteid=5341#jobDetails=1937133_5341"
postdate = "2022-02-03"
archivedate = "2022-04-10"
draft = "false"
+++
Harvard Business School, whose mission is to educate leaders who make a difference in the world, is seeking a Statistician/Data Scientist with a strong background in quantitative research methods to join its Research Computing Services (RCS) group within the Division of Research and Faculty Development (DRFD). The Statistician/Data Scientist supports HBS faculty research by providing expert guidance and support on quantitative methods. The ideal candidate has experience with multiple steps in the data life cycle, including data acquisition, data processing, data management, analysis, and visualization, preferably in a research environment; and brings technical programming expertise using research software packages. S/he will have a history of successful collaborations, particularly in a service delivery environment.

**Job-Specific Responsibilities**

Reporting to the Director of Data Services and Project Operations, the Statistician/Data Scientist is responsible for identifying and implementing technical solutions for meeting researcher statistical and data science needs, both as an individual contributor and as part of a team. He/she exhibits a high level of independence, judgment, intellectual curiosity, and technical skills.

**The primary responsibilities include:**

- Works directly with faculty on statistical and data science projects.
- Serves the data needs of faculty and other researchers, identifying and applying computational and statistical tools, and advising and training researchers in the use of these tools.
- Resolves short-term research-related questions and problems, or takes on faculty research projects that may involve statistical analysis, statistical programming, or large/complex data sets.
- Researches and implements cutting-edge techniques in both statistics and programming as needed for more sophisticated quantitative researchers.
- Develops and programs algorithms when not available in standard statistical software packages.
- Reviews researcher-developed statistical programs and suggests alternative procedures or statistical packages when appropriate to optimize processing.
- Troubleshoots problems with researchers’ statistical programming code or unusual patterns of results.
- Stays abreast of new developments in statistics, and computer programming; and statistical methods and procedures used in top journals; stays current with new versions of statistical software packages (e.g., R, Python, Stata)
- Works independently with sound judgment, directly accountable for accuracy of methods and results.
- Often works on multiple projects simultaneously, balancing short and long-term projects to meet deadlines and faculty needs.
- Ensures adherence to policies related to the use of data from external sources.
- Collaborates within and across teams through knowledge sharing and promotion of best practices (e.g., code review, technology showcase).
- Learns new technologies and tools as needed.
- Serves as a statistical and computing resource for other members of the RCS team.

**Basic Qualifications**

- BA in quantitative or related field + 5-7 years, OR; MA in a quantitative or related field + 3-5 years, OR; PhD + 0-2 years
- Applied use of multiple statistical programming packages such as R, Python, and/or Stata

**Additional Qualifications and Skills**

- Meticulous attention to detail and demonstrated ability to produce consistently high quality work product
- Experience with (or openness to training on) Machine Learning
- Exemplary customer service orientation, initiative, and the ability to anticipate and plan for customer needs
- Familiarity working with research teams as well as the research process.
- Strong written and oral communication skills; ability to communicate complex technical topics to lay audiences as well as knowledgeable individuals
- Ability to work independently and collaboratively on a team
-  Familiarity with the following:
	- Linux-based parallel processing environment
	- Version control systems such as Git/GitHub
	- Cluster and cloud computing
	- Visualization tools such as Tableau, ggplot2, and D3.js
	- Approaches to handling large datasets
	- Research data management
- Ability to work with highly confidential/sensitive information
- Demonstrated ability and desire to develop and maintain expertise in emerging research methods and technologies
- Sound judgment, professionalism, diplomatic skills, comfort in interacting with prominent individuals, and grace under pressure
- Flexibility and capacity to multi-task and meet competing deadlines

**Additional Information**

This role is offered as a hybrid (some combination of onsite and remote) where you are required to be onsite at our Boston, MA-based campus 2-3 days per week. Eligibility is dependent on you residing in one of the following states: CT, MA, MD, ME, NH, NY, RI, VT, or CA (exempt roles only).Specific days and schedules will be determined between you and your manager. 

The University requires all Harvard community members to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and remain up to date with COVID-19 vaccine boosters, as detailed in Harvard’s Vaccine & Booster Requirements. Individuals may claim exemption from the vaccine requirement for medical or religious reasons. More information regarding the University’s COVID vaccination requirement, exemptions, and verification of vaccination status may be found at the University’s “COVID-19 Vaccine Information” webpage: http://www.harvard.edu/coronavirus/covid-19-vaccine-information/.

A cover letter is required to be considered for this opportunity.

Harvard Business School will not offer visa sponsorship for this opportunity.

Culture of Inclusion: The work and well-being of HBS are profoundly strengthened by the diversity of our network and our differences in background, culture, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, and life experiences. Explore more about HBS work culture here.

Job Function: Research
: Location: USA - MA - Boston
: Job Code: RS0357 Statistician II
: Department: Division of Research and Faculty Development
: Time Status: Full-time
: Salary Grade: 057
: Union: 00 - Non Union, Exempt or Temporary

Pre-Employment Screening

Education, Identity

Commitment to Equity, Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging

Harvard University views equity, diversity, inclusion, and belonging as the pathway to achieving inclusive excellence and fostering a campus culture where everyone can thrive. We strive to create a community that draws upon the widest possible pool of talent to unify excellence and diversity while fully embracing individuals from varied backgrounds, cultures, races, identities, life experiences, perspectives, beliefs, and values.

EEO Statement

We are an equal opportunity employer and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status, gender identity, sexual orientation, pregnancy and pregnancy-related conditions, or any other characteristic protected by law.