+++
title = "Senior Director and Associate University Librarian"
employer = "University of Florida"
employerurl = "https://www.ufl.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://hr.uflib.ufl.edu/prospective-employees/current-openings/vacant-faculty-positions/"
postdate = "2022-03-15"
archivedate = "2022-06-01"
draft = "false"
+++
The George A. Smathers Libraries seek an innovative and collaborative candidate to apply for its Senior Director, Academic Research Consulting and Services (ARCS). The ARCS department is an innovative, forward-thinking team central to library-based, discipline-agnostic research support for the University of Florida community. Our goal is to identify a collegial leader whose experience in and enthusiasm for academic research will position them to develop key relationships; advocate for the role of the Smathers Libraries in supporting research; and build and grow highly effective, inclusive, and innovative teams with culturally-rich lived experiences.

The ARCS team is strategically expanding to meet campus needs, with a new emphasis on supporting artificial intelligence through deep engagement in education, research, equity, and outreach. ARCS also provides expertise in bioinformatics analysis, data management, informatics, rigor and reproducibility, systematic reviews, and related areas (http://arcs.uflib.ufl.edu/). Working in collaboration with ARCS affiliates (scholarly communication, responsible conduct of research, publishing) as well as subject-specific liaison librarians, ARCS supports researchers throughout the research life cycle through innovative research consultation services; training opportunities for current and future researchers within and outside the curriculum; and outreach strategies to research constituencies campus wide.

The ARCS Senior Director is a year-round (12 month), tenure-track faculty position providing leadership and vision for, and management of, ARCS. ARCS faculty are key partners in advancing the research enterprise, leading and supporting initiatives to grow infrastructure and services that enhance UF’s diverse research portfolio, which includes over $900 million annually in funded research. 

The search will remain open until March 31, 2022, and applicants will be reviewed as received. For a full description of the position and instructions on how to apply, please refer to the George A. Smathers Libraries faculty recruitment webpage.

The University of Florida is an equal opportunity employer and is strongly committed to the diversity of our faculty and staff. Applicants from a broad spectrum of people, including members of ethnic minorities and disabled persons, are especially encouraged to apply.