+++
title = "Geospatial Data Curator"
employer = "Virginia Tech"
employerurl = "https://vt.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.pageuppeople.com/968/cw/en-us/job/522300/geospatial-data-curator"
postdate = "2022-10-11"
archivedate = "2022-11-28"
draft = "false"
+++

**Geospatial Data Curator**

Rank: Lecturer

Job Number: 522300

**Job Description:**

Under the direction of the Assistant Director of Data Management and Curation Services, the Geospatial Data Curator will provide curation support to Virginia Tech researchers including publishing research datasets and code (abbreviated as ‘data’ throughout) using Libraries digital infrastructure. Curation support includes assisting Virginia Tech researchers in finding appropriate repositories for their research data, and enhancing the documentation and reuse of research data through the curation process. The Geospatial Data Curator will have a focus on geospatial data curation support, including providing training, guidance and consultative assistance with geospatial applications and spatial analysis to the Virginia Tech community in order to improve the reusability of geospatial data generated by Virginia Tech researchers. The Geospatial Data Curator will also participate in the Data Curation Network, a consortium of generalist repositories that share curation expertise. The Geospatial Data Curator will also support the Geospatial Data Consultant in development of the University Libraries physical and digital geospatial data collections.

The University Libraries at Virginia Tech is committed to building a culturally diverse community and strongly encourages applications from women and minorities. We are committed to mentoring and establishing safe spaces where employees from current and historically minoritized groups can thrive. In support of this effort this position is eligible for 100% telework in the first 1-2 years with the expectation that the employee will transition to a hybrid schedule with time on campus after this period.

**Required Qualifications:**
- Master's degree in library and information science or a Bachelor's degree with training and or experience in a discipline that uses geospatial data.
- Experience in service provision/working with clients.
- Experience in public presentation/communication.
- Experience with geospatial applications (e.g. ARCGis, other Esri products, open source products such as QGIS) and spatial analysis.

**Preferred Qualifications:**
- Experience working in a collaborative team-based environment.
- Experience in development and/or delivery of guidance or training.
- Experience in any of the following: research data documentation, research data archiving, research data publication, secondary use of research data.
- Experience in metadata creation and management, especially in regards to geospatial data.
- Experience in data management planning and writing/reviewing of data management plans for funding proposals.
- Experience in programming, e.g. in Python, R, SQL.
- Interest or experience in GIS as they relate to minoritized communities or equity and inclusion.

**Employment Conditions:**

- Work schedule: Monday-Friday 8am-5pm or as assigned. This position has the possibility for remote work in the first 1-2 years with the expectation that the employee will transition to a hybrid schedule with time on campus after this period.
- The successful candidate will be required to have a criminal conviction check.

The application package needs to include a resume, cover letter addressing the candidate's experience with the responsibilities associated with the position, the required and preferred qualifications, and names of three (3) references and their contact information.
How to apply for this job: Applications must be submitted online at https://jobs.vt.edu/

Quick Link: https://careers.pageuppeople.com/968/cw/en-us/job/522300/geospatial-data-curator

Employee Category: A/P Faculty Lecturer, regular full-time appointment

Pay Range: $55,000 minimum dependent on education and experience

Department: Library


**Additional Information**

The University Libraries at Virginia Tech is committed to building a culturally diverse community and strongly encourages applications from women and minorities. We are committed to mentoring and establishing safe spaces, both physical and virtual, where employees from current and historically minoritized groups can thrive.

The members of the University Libraries at Virginia Tech strive individually and collectively to create, sustain, and share inclusive ways of knowing in conscientious community with each other and all the people we serve in every space we shape. In keeping with our Aspirational Identity and the Virginia Tech Principles of Community, the University Libraries commits to build and maintain enduring climates of mutual care, respect, and responsibility.

**About Virginia Tech**

Dedicated to its motto, *Ut Prosim* (That I May Serve), Virginia Tech pushes the boundaries of knowledge by taking a hands-on, transdisciplinary approach to preparing scholars to be leaders and problem-solvers. A comprehensive land-grant institution that enhances the quality of life in Virginia and throughout the world, Virginia Tech is an inclusive community dedicated to knowledge, discovery, and creativity. The university offers more than 280 majors to a diverse enrollment of more than 36,000 undergraduate, graduate, and professional students in eight undergraduate colleges, a school of medicine, a veterinary medicine college, Graduate School, and Honors College. The university has a significant presence across Virginia, including the Innovation Campus in Northern Virginia; the Health Sciences and Technology Campus in Roanoke; sites in Newport News and Richmond; and numerous Extension offices and research centers. A leading global research institution, Virginia Tech conducts more than $500 million in research annually.

Virginia Tech does not discriminate against employees, students, or applicants on the basis of age, color, disability, sex (including pregnancy), gender, gender identity, gender expression, genetic information, national origin, political affiliation, race, religion, sexual orientation, or military status, or otherwise discriminate against employees or applicants who inquire about, discuss, or disclose their compensation or the compensation of other employees or applicants, or on any other basis protected by law.

If you are an individual with a disability and desire an accommodation, please contact Cathy Pillow at (email redacted) during regular business hours at least 10 business days prior to the event.

**Job Location**

Blacksburg, VA
