+++
title = "Collections Analysis Librarian"
employer = "University of New Mexico"
employerurl = "https://www.unm.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://unm.csod.com/ux/ats/careersite/18/home/requisition/19988?c=unm"
postdate = "2022-05-09"
archivedate = "2022-07-01"
draft = "false"
+++
Employment Type: Faculty
: Hiring Department	CULLS (107A)
: Campus: Main - Albuquerque, NM

**Benefits Eligible**

The University of New Mexico provides a comprehensive package of benefits including medical, dental, vision, and life insurance. In addition, UNM offers educational benefits through the tuition remission and dependent education programs. See the Benefits home page for more information.

**Position Summary**

Are you a curious problem solver and passionate about creating robust, user-focused information access? Would you enjoy living in a place with 310 days of sunshine a year, rich history, thriving cultures, and enchanting landscapes? If you answered yes to both questions, we at The University of New Mexico (UNM) College of University Libraries & Learning Sciences (CULLS) have a great opportunity in our newly created Collection Analysis Librarian position. 

As part of a collaborative, cross-departmental collections team, you will play a key role in developing data-informed collection strategies. Your work will ensure that CULLS is able to nimbly adapt to new and emerging areas of focus and align library resources with the needs of a diverse campus community. Your analytical skills and creativity will enhance the team’s ability to: 

- Identify collection gaps and improve collection representation and inclusivity of historically oppressed, marginalized, and underserved voices and populations. 
- Implement the Protocols for Native American Archival Materials and extend culturally sensitive curation practices to other areas. 
- Develop strategies for evaluating different types of collections (e.g., circulating, special, distinctive, electronic) across a range of disciplines. 
- Evaluate electronic resources for licensing and subscription renewals. 
- Provide data in support accreditation and related academic program assessments. 
- Promote transparency of collection related processes and budgets. 

The Collections Analysis Librarian is a full-time, 12-month, tenure-track faculty position with a desired start date of August 1, 2022. The College provides a supportive environment for achieving tenure with a formal mentorship program, annual progress reviews, and dedicated research time. The minimum starting salary is $62,000, includes generous benefits, and is negotiable based on qualifications. The position reports to the Director of Collections and is represented by United Academics of UNM. Prioritizing a diverse, equitable, and inclusive organization, the College strongly encourages interested candidates who are members of minoritized or marginalized groups to inquire or apply.  

**Responsibilities**

As the Collection Analysis Librarian, you will have freedom to experiment and the opportunity to develop this role based on your interests and the ongoing needs of the library and its users. The primary duties of the position are the following: 

- Collect, analyze, and communicate data to inform planning, decision-making, and assessment of library collections and related services. 
- Lead the collections team in developing, executing, and documenting an ongoing and sustainable collection assessment strategy. 
- Develop workflows and templates to streamline the production of regular and routine reports. 
- Work as part of a team to understand evolving collection challenges and proactively find solutions to support information users both within the library and more broadly. 
- Contribute to CULLS initiatives that further UNM’s commitment to diversity and inclusion. 
- Actively engage in anti-racist work to advance inclusive excellence. 
- Participate in CULLS faculty governance and in library management as required. 
- Meet librarianship and teaching, scholarship, and service requirements for promotion and tenure as detailed in the UNM Faculty Handbook and in our College Promotion and Tenure Guidelines. 

**The University Environment**

Founded in 1889, the University of New Mexico sits on the traditional homelands of the Pueblo of Sandia. The original peoples of New Mexico – Pueblo, Navajo, and Apache – since time immemorial, have deep connections to the land and have made significant contributions to the broader community statewide. We honor the land itself and those who remain stewards of this land throughout the generations and acknowledge our committed relationship to Indigenous peoples. We gratefully recognize our history.  

UNM is a Tier I Research Institution, a Hispanic-serving institution, and the flagship university in a majority minority state. To support UNM’s diverse campus constituents and colleagues, the College affirms its commitment to honor diversity, ensure fairness and access, and create an environment where all employees are treated respectfully. These commitments include supporting the University and CULLS’ DEIA efforts and the College’s Anti-Racism statement.

UNM is a member of the Association of Research Libraries, Center for Research Libraries, and the Greater Western Library Alliance and leads the LIBROS Consortium of seventeen academic libraries in New Mexico. The College is comprised of the University Libraries, an academic degree granting unit (Organization, Information, and Learning Sciences), and the University of New Mexico Press. The UNM Libraries contain over 3.5 million volumes and includes three libraries: Centennial Science & Engineering Library, Fine Arts & Design Library, and Zimmerman Library (humanities, social sciences, business, and education). Zimmerman Library houses the Center for Southwest Research and Special Collections. UNM is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer and educator.  

Why Albuquerque? https://advance.unm.edu/why-abq/

**Qualifications**

Minimum Qualifications

- An earned master’s degree from an ALA-accredited library/information sciences program or equivalent OR an earned doctorate by the start date. 

Preferred (Desired) Qualifications

Applicants with any combination of the following interests or desirable qualifications are encouraged to apply. In your cover letter, please provide examples or describe the areas where you have demonstrated interest or experience. 

- Experience with one or more data analysis tools or approaches, such as  
  - using tools like Microsoft Excel, R, or Python for data analysis
  - coursework in accounting, qualitative analysis, statistics, assessment, or data visualization. 
- Experience with one or more aspects of library collections, such as 
  - evaluating a collection, organizing collection data, selecting/deselecting resources, managing physical or digital collections, preparing/tracking budgets, participating in negotiations, or guiding open access/scholarly communication/digitization initiatives 
  - coursework in collection development/management or scholarly communication 
- Knowledge of the role of assessment in collection processes and decision making. 
- Experience selecting data sources relevant to collections analysis and evaluating their limitations. 
- Experience managing data, including collecting, organizing, integrating, and appropriately sharing data sets. 
- Experience preparing reports and data visualizations for a wide range of audiences. 
- Ability to systematically approach complex or evolving challenges, and creatively seek user focused solutions. 
- Ability to work collaboratively with professional staff and faculty who bring different skills and expertise to problem solving. 
- Excellent oral, written, and interpersonal communication skills. 
- Ability to prioritize and balance competing demands. 
- Curiosity and ability to learn new skills and technologies. 
- Ability to communicate in Spanish or an Indigenous language of the Southwestern U.S.  
- Demonstrated commitment to accessibility in libraries.
- Demonstrated commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion, and student success as well as working with broadly diverse communities. 
