+++
title = "Research Data Specialist, Health Sciences Library"
employer = "University of Virginia"
employerurl = "https://www.library.virginia.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://uva.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/UVAJobs/job/Charlottesville-VA/Research-Data-Specialist--Health-Sciences-Library_R0042032"
postdate = "2022-11-04"
archivedate = "2022-12-08"
draft = "false"
+++

**Research Data Specialist, Health Sciences Library**


The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library seeks a service-oriented **Research Data Specialist** to support faculty, staff, and student researchers by providing consultations and training on applied research data analysis across the data lifecycle. Areas of support include cleaning and manipulating data, experimental design, and statistical analysis. This position will also communicate methods and results, through scientific writing and data visualization design.

The Research Data Specialist will guide researchers at all proficiency levels through the processes and tools needed to accomplish their data goals. As a member of Research and Data Services (RDAS), the Specialist will partner with RDAS colleagues to provide expert research data support through multiple areas of the research lifecycle. This position must stay up to date on emerging data science approaches and anticipated research data needs, collaborating with RDAS team members to review and develop services. They will also work with stakeholders across the institution to contribute to university-wide data-related initiatives.

The Claude Moore Health Sciences Library has made a commitment to promote diversity and inclusivity among our collections and services. We are committed to creating a more just, inclusive, diverse, equitable, and accessible environment for our employees and those whom we serve. We seek candidates whose work and/or service demonstrates their proven commitment to these principles.

**JOB RESPONSIBILITIES**

- Consults on research data questions and devises customized technical and/or programming solutions for data collection, manipulation, analysis, and visualization
- Develops and delivers educational content, including live workshops and asynchronous training materials such as guides and tutorials
- Leads library efforts to create an educational program of data science and statistical topics
- Writes and delivers customized data science and/or statistical workshops for groups in the Schools and Health System
- Conducts independent exploration and testing of new programming tools and technologies
- Seeks educational opportunities and professional development activities regarding new data science and statistical methods and techniques
- Works with other members of the RDAS team to build and support research data management services around open science and research workflow topics such as rigor and reproducibility and data sharing
- Engages with other data service providers at the University of Virginia and in the surrounding community and collaborate to foster mutually beneficial partnerships

**MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS**

- Education: Master's or Doctoral degree in relevant academic discipline
- Experience: At least 4 years of relevant experience integrating both the academic discipline and information technology
 

**Preferred Qualifications:**

- Excellent communication and presentation skills
- Proficiency with R and/or Python programming languages
- Experience performing statistical inference, such as hypothesis testing, linear models/regression, generalized linear models, or mixed-effect/multilevel models
- Experience providing research services in an academic setting
- Experience working with the Tidyverse family of functions in R or pandas in Python
- Familiarity with health sciences research and data
- Desire to provide highly responsive, user-centered services
- Interest in providing instruction, both formal and informal, to varying audiences and skill levels
- Strong technical skills and problem-solving abilities related to data collection, cleaning, and analysis
- Demonstrated ability to manage multiple projects and to work independently and on teams


**PHYSICAL DEMANDS**

This is primarily a sedentary job involving extensive use of desktop computers. The job does occasionally require traveling some distance to attend meetings, and programs.

Anticipated Hiring Range: $70,000 - $84,000 commensurate with education and experience. For more information on the benefits at UVA, visit [https://hr.virginia.edu/benefits](https://hr.virginia.edu/benefits). 

Priority review of applications will begin on December 9, 2022, but this position will remain open until filled. The University will perform background checks on all new hires prior to employment. A completed pre-employment health screen is required for this position prior to employment. 

**TO APPLY**

Please apply through [Workday](https://uva.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/UVAJobs), and search for R0042032. Internal applicants must apply through their UVA Workday profile by searching 'Find Jobs'. Complete an application online with the following documents:

- CV or Resume
- Cover letter that includes information about why you are interested in this role and how you have demonstrated a commitment to diversity and inclusion in prior roles or experiences

Upload all materials into the resume submission field, multiple documents can be submitted into this one field. Alternatively, merge all documents into one PDF for submission. Applications that do not contain all required documents will not receive full consideration.

References will be completed via UVA’s standardized process Skill Survey during the final phase of the interview process.

For questions about the application process, please contact Jeremy Brofft, Senior Recruiting Specialist at xmf9ad@virginia.edu.

**About UVA Health and Charlottesville VA:**

UVA Health is an academic health system that strives to provide excellence, innovation, and exceptional quality in the care of patients, the training of health professionals, and the creation and sharing of knowledge within a culture that promotes equity, diversity, and inclusivity. UVA Health is an expansive network comprised of the UVA Medical Center, UVA Community Health, UVA Transitional Care Hospital, University of Virginia Physician’s Group, UVA School of Medicine, UVA School of Nursing, Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, and several other strategic partnerships and alliances. For more information on UVA Health, visit [www.UVAHealth.com](www.UVAHealth.com).

Charlottesville is located in central Virginia, just east of the Blue Ridge Mountains, and 100 miles south of Washington, D.C., Charlottesville offers stunning natural beauty, a thriving art, music, and food culture, and an ever-growing list of things to do. For more information about UVA and the Charlottesville community please see [http://www.virginia.edu/life/charlottesville](http://www.virginia.edu/life/charlottesville) and [https://embarkcva.com/](https://embarkcva.com/). 



**Job Location**

Charlottesville, VA
