+++
title = "Research & Data Librarian"
employer = "Harvard Kennedy School"
employerurl = "https://hks.harvard.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://sjobs.brassring.com/TGnewUI/Search/home/HomeWithPreLoad?partnerid=25240&siteid=5341&PageType=JobDetails&jobid=1944204"
postdate = "2022-03-03"
archivedate = "2022-06-01"
draft = "false"
+++
**Job Summary**

Reporting to the Manager of Research and Data Services and in support of the mission of the Harvard Kennedy School, the Research and Instruction Librarian is responsible for providing in-depth library research and data services support for the Harvard Kennedy School (HKS). In addition to responding to reference questions and providing research and data consultations, this role will work closely with the Manager on projects, particularly on assessment and development of research and data services.

Within Library and Knowledge Services (LKS), we value continually learning. The Research and Data Librarian will be expected to continually pursue new areas for learning related to this role and use newly gained skills and knowledge on the job.  The Research and Data Librarian will also encourage and support this learning for other members of LKS. 

HKS, including LKS, is committed to building a diverse and inclusive community of staff, faculty, and students. This position will work toward building such a community and foster an inclusive environment in LKS (for colleagues and library patrons) that values and prioritizes diversity, inclusion, and belonging.  

**Job-Specific Responsibilities**

- Administers high quality, user-centered research and data services by (1) acting as the lead on general and in-depth reference and research queries through multiple channels identified by the Manager of Research & Data Services (including in-person, email, and phone); (2) consulting with and instructing library users in devising research strategies, identifying appropriate research materials/data, and in using those materials effectively; and (3) broadly supporting research and data needs of the HKS community, inclusive of complicated and in-depth research inquiries. 

- Maintains and continuously develops subject expertise to provide faculty, students, and staff with specialized professional support while building trust and rapport across these communities. 

- Creates and maintains course, subject, and general online research guides as well as LKS FAQs. 

- Establishes and nurtures deep knowledge of expertise, services, and resources available through LKS and Harvard Library and shares this knowledge across LKS to support efficient referral system of all LKS staff working with faculty, staff, students, and fellows. 

- Working with the Curriculum and Instruction Librarian, plans and conducts library workshops and orientations, partnering with faculty and academic staff as well as other LKS staff to plan and deliver course-integrated instruction in information literacy, data literacy, and research practices.  

- Works collaboratively on cross-functional teams to move LKS portfolios, projects, and initiatives forward. 

- Works actively and collaboratively across HKS and the University to improve research and data services/resources for the HKS community, including representing HKS on committees or committee-related work when relevant. 

- Under the direction of the Manager of Research and Data Services, takes on new challenges, projects, and duties as necessary to support the HKS mission. 

**Basic Qualifications**

- Master’s Degree in Library and Information Science or equivalent degree and a minimum 3 years of professional experience in research services with some experience in data services in a research organization.

**Additional Qualifications and Skills**

- Customer service experience demonstrating a customer-focused and results-oriented attitude

- Proficiency in at least one programming language (R, Python, etc.) or basic competency and appetite to learn more

- Passionate about research, scholarly communications, data, and delivering substantive and responsive resources and services to your community

- Demonstrated ability to work effectively in a collaborative and/or team environment.

- Commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion

- Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, both oral and written.

**Any combination of the below is a plus:**

- Experience improving research or data services in a decentralized organization

- Knowledge of information resources in subject areas that coincide with Harvard Kennedy School curriculum and research

- Experience supporting research services in the social sciences and/or public policy

- Proficiency in citation management tools

- Experience in higher education

**Additional Information**

We regret that the Harvard Kennedy School does not provide visa sponsorship.
Harvard University requires pre-employment reference and background checks. 
Harvard University is committed to supporting a healthy, sustainable learning and working environment.

Please note: This is an in-person/on campus position based in Cambridge, MA, and is expected to work on campus at least 3 days/ week, with the other two days flexible for remote work.

The University requires all Harvard community members to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and remain up to date with COVID-19 vaccine boosters, as detailed in Harvard’s Vaccine & Booster Requirements. Individuals may claim exemption from the vaccine requirement for medical or religious reasons. More information regarding the University’s COVID vaccination requirement, exemptions, and verification of vaccination status may be found at the University’s “COVID-19 Vaccine Information” webpage: http://www.harvard.edu/coronavirus/covid-19-vaccine-information/. 

Salary Range: $69,100 - $116,100
Note: Starting salaries typically fall in the lower half of the salary range; however, they are ultimately determined by the scope of the position, the candidate's relevant experience, and internal equity. 

**Harvard offers a generous benefits package including:**

- Time Off: 3- 4 weeks paid vacation, paid holiday break, 12 paid sick days, 12.5 paid holidays, and 3 paid personal days per year.
- Medical/Dental/Vision: We offer a variety of excellent medical plans, dental & vision plans, all coverage begins as of your start date.
- Retirement: University-funded retirement plan with full vesting after 3 years of service.
- Tuition Assistance Program: Competitive tuition assistance program, $40 per class at the Harvard Extension School and discounted options through participating Harvard grad schools. 
- Transportation: Harvard offers a 50% discounted MBTA pass as well as additional options to assist employees in their daily commute.
- Wellness Options: Harvard offers programs and classes at little or no cost, including stress management, massages, nutrition, meditation and complimentary health services.
- Harvard access to athletic facilities, libraries, campus events and many discounts throughout metro Boston.

Job Function: Library
: Location: USA - MA - Cambridge
: Job Code: 386057 Library Professional Sub-Unit
: Department: Library and Knowledge Services
: Time Status: Full-time
: Salary Grade: 057
: Union: 00 - Non Union, Exempt or Temporary
: Pre-Employment Screening: Education, Identity

**Commitment to Equity, Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging**

Harvard Kennedy School’s Mission and Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging

At Harvard Kennedy School, fostering a diverse and inclusive community where everyone feels they belong is a matter of basic fairness consistent with our core values as an institution. It is also essential to our mission of improving public policy and leadership—because recruiting the best people and creating an environment where they can thrive make us better at what we do, because we learn more from people with different perspectives, and because we work in diverse groups and serve diverse societies.

Learn more about Harvard Kennedy School’s commitment to diversity, inclusion, and belonging.

**EEO Statement**

We are an equal opportunity employer and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status, gender identity, sexual orientation, pregnancy and pregnancy-related conditions, or any other characteristic protected by law.