+++
title = "Associate University Librarian, Planning and Operations"
employer = "Boston University"
employerurl = "https://www.bu.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://bu.silkroad.com/epostings/index.cfm?fuseaction=app.jobinfo&jobid=310403"
postdate = "2022-08-12"
archivedate = "2022-08-22"
draft = "false"
+++
The Boston University Libraries seek an Associate University Librarian (AUL) for Planning and Operations to oversee and advance core library operational, financial, and strategic planning activities and programs.  The AUL for Planning and Operations is a collaborative leader at the University, aligning the library’s operations and staff development efforts with the university’s commitment to advance academic excellence, support inclusive communities, and contribute to a vibrant residential campus experience. To achieve these goals, the AUL for Planning and Operations oversees internal staff and liaises with centralized units in business and financial services, budgetary planning, organizational and professional development, assessment, and facilities and operational management to support staff- and student-facing library services.

Reporting to the University Librarian, the AUL for Planning and Operations is a member of the Libraries leadership team, a critical strategic partner in the development and resource planning of new initiatives that meet and anticipate the needs of library users, and an active member of an inclusive campus community that advances a vibrant residential academic experience. The AUL for Planning and Operations assumes a leadership role in engagement with peers at the regional, national, and international levels and participates and contributes expertise in a variety of forums across the university.

**Responsibilities**

Strategic Leadership over Administrative Services and Core Operations

- Provide senior leadership and oversight of the central administrative services of the library, including finance and business services, budget development and tracking, project planning, operational continuity, and central facilities management.
- Serve as the library system’s senior liaison to the core central operational and administrative support units at Boston University, including Human Resources, Campus Planning and Operations, Development and Alumni Relations, Organizational Development & Learning.
- Prepares analyses and regular financial reporting for the University Librarian and the libraries leadership team.
- Develops and implements practices and procedures to recruit, retain, and support the professional development, training, and engagement of a diverse and robust library staff to advance library service to the BU community.
- Convenes management and department heads across the BU library system to identify and develop projects and proposals for the improvement of facilities and infrastructure in library-managed locations.
- Directs the activities of the library’s assessment program, including and especially data-collection and tracking that supports the library’s progress toward identified strategic implementation goals in the BU2030 plan.
- Work across the library leadership team to develop responses, proposals, and solutions to emergent opportunities to partner with and support the BU research community through the assignment of library resources, programs, and subject specialists.
- Pursues professional engagement for self and staff through training, participation, and leadership opportunities in professional forums to connect the Boston University Libraries with best practices and emergent issues in higher education administration and library service development.
- Mentors and supports the continuous professional development of BU Libraries Planning & Operations staff.

Introduces and Leads Library Initiatives Promoting Organizational and Staff Development

- Develops and implements practices and procedures to recruit, retain, and support the professional development, training, and engagement of a diverse and robust library staff to advance library service to the BU community.
- Convenes management and department heads across the BU library system to identify and develop projects and proposals for the improvement of facilities and infrastructure in library-managed locations.

Assessment Lead and Strategic Leadership

- Directs the activities of the library’s assessment program, including and especially data-collection and tracking that supports the library’s progress toward identified strategic implementation goals in the BU2030 plan.
- Work across the library leadership team to develop responses, proposals, and solutions to emergent opportunities to partner with and support the BU research community through the assignment of library resources, programs, and subject specialists.

Professional Development and Engagement

- Pursues professional engagement for self and staff through training, participation, and leadership opportunities in professional forums to connect the Boston University Libraries with best practices and emergent issues in higher education administration and library service development.
- Mentors and supports the continuous professional development of BU Libraries Planning & Operations staff.

**Required Skills**

- Master’s degree in a relevant field (library or information science, management, public administration, etc.); and
- 5-8 years of experience in research libraries or higher education; or
- Commensurate combination of education and experience that has prepared the candidate for senior role in research library administration

Boston University Libraries is a learning organization that supports the work of BU librarians, archivists, and information and subject specialists to seek and share knowledge, practices, and perspectives that advance library services to the university community. Embedded in numerous vibrant regional and national library and information specialist networks, the Boston University Libraries are active members within the Boston Library Consortium, the Association of Research Libraries, and the Coalition for Networked Information, and library staff at BU serve as engaged thought-leaders on a wide breadth of library management and service areas across diverse communities.

Through the Libraries, BU also is a member of the Association of Research Libraries (ARL), the Coalition for Networked Information (CNI), the Northeast Research Libraries Consortium (NERL), HathiTrust, the Boston Library Consortium (BLC), the Eastern Academic Scholars’ Trust (EAST), the OCLC Research Library Partnership, the Scholarly Publishing and Academic Resources Coalition (SPARC), and the Higher Education Leadership Initiative for Open Scholarship (HELIOS).

Boston University, a member of the Association of American Universities (AAU), is one of the leading private research and teaching institutions in the world, with two primary campuses in the heart of Boston and programs around the globe. Chartered in 1869, the University is home to more than 33,000 students from more than 130 countries, 375,000 living alumni, 10,000 faculty and staff, and 17 schools and colleges.

For consideration, please submit a cover letter and resume/CV. Application review will commence September 6, 2022 and continue until the position is filled.

Please note all newly hired staff and faculty will need to be in compliance with Boston University’s COVID-19 Vaccination and Booster Requirement within 30 days of date of hire. You must upload your vaccine documentation or request a medical or religious exemption (instructions). For further information on the University’s response to COVID-19, please visit the COVID-19 Resources site.

We are an equal opportunity employer and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, physical or mental disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, military service, pregnancy or pregnancy-related condition, or because of marital, parental, or veteran status. We are a VEVRAA Federal Contractor.

Job Location
: BOSTON, Massachusetts, United States 

Position Type
: Full-Time/Regular 

Salary Grade
: Grade 51