+++
title = "Data Services Librarian"
employer = "University of Nebraska"
employerurl = "https://www.unomaha.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://unmc.peopleadmin.com/postings/73007"
postdate = "2022-07-06"
archivedate = "2022-07-15"
draft = "false"
+++
The McGoogan Health Sciences Library seeks an innovative and collaborative Data Services Librarian to join a team of faculty education and research librarians. The Data Services Librarian coordinates and delivers the library’s research services for research data management, data curation, data visualization, and data literacy, and oversees the continued development of a portfolio of services that support UNMC researchers. This position liaises with the Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research, UNMC units that support researchers, and researcher teams at UNMC. This position will be enthusiastically supported by librarians who have complementary skills in research lifecycle areas.

Library faculty participate in campus service and receive support to pursue professional development. This is not a tenure-leading faculty position, but library faculty may elect to pursue tenure or promotion. On-the-job training is provided and encouraged. This is a full-time, 12-month position. Minimum salary is $65,000 per year.

**Position Qualification**

I. Teaching Responsibilities
: Deliver instruction in research data management, data curation, data visualization, and data literacy.

**II. Research Responsibilities**

III. Administration and Service
: Coordinates and delivers the library’s research services for research data management, data curation, data visualization, and data literacy. Oversee the continued development of a portfolio to support UNMC researchers. The position liaises with the Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research, UNMC units that support researchers, and researcher teams at UNMC.

**Position Summary**

- Consult with research teams on research data management, data curation, and data visualization.
- Assist researchers in complying with funder mandates (e.g. 2023 NIH Data Sharing Policy), creating data management plans, and identifying local experts.
- Review datasets to assess curation needs, make recommendations to maximize the value of the data, and implement these recommendations in collaboration with researchers and library staff.Advise on data documentation strategies and use of metadata schemas.
- Assist users with locating datasets.
- Contribute to the library’s strategic planning, assessment, and promotion for data services areas.
- Promote McGoogan Library’s role in supporting researchers.
- Collaborate with clinicians, educators, students, library faculty, and community partners to develop and implement strategies for data literacy at UNMC.
- Collaborate with other library staff to develop and promote a robust and cohesive data services program.

Represent the library internally and externally; serve on committees and working groups of McGoogan Library and UNMC.
Engage in academic, instructional, and professional service activities. Work to expand the knowledge base of the field through relevant research and publications.
The above and other duties and responsibilities shall be subject to the direction of the Associate Dean in consultation with the Dean and modified at their reasonable discretion.

**Required Qualifications**

- Advanced degree in research-related field or master’s degree in Library Science from an ALA-accredited institution.
- Minimum of one year of experience in library services or research environment.
- Course work in managing, sharing or curating quantitative research data, or direct experience supporting researchers in managing, sharing or curating quantitative research data.
- Knowledge of data services concepts, such as: data management plans, data curation, data visualization, research and data lifecycle support, open data, and data literacy.
- Knowledge of programming languages, such as: Python, R, and SQL.
- Willingness to take an active role in developing a new library program and promoting a new suite of library services.

**Supplemental Qualifications**

- Ability to cultivate relationships with research partners.
- Experience providing instruction or consultation with faculty and students on data literacy concepts.
- Experience working in an academic library environment.
- Educational background in a science-related discipline.
- Familiarity with funding agencies requiring data management plans.
- Experience with data visualization tools.

McGoogan Health Sciences Library recognizes diversity, equity, and inclusion as core values integral to achieving our mission to connect the past, inform the present, and build the future. Our commitment supports UNMC’s Strategic Plan to ensure that UNMC is an exemplary culturally sensitive, diverse, and inclusive organization in its mission of transforming lives through preeminent education, innovative research, and extraordinary care. Early career librarians and individuals from diverse backgrounds are encouraged to apply.