+++
title = "Associate Librarian"
employer = "University of Michigan, ICPSR"
employerurl = "https://www.umich.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.umich.edu/job_detail/211911/associate-librarian"
postdate = "2022-03-09"
archivedate = "2022-06-01"
draft = "false"
+++
Working Title: ASSOCIATE LIBRARIAN
: Job Title: ASSOC LIBRARIAN
: Work Location: Ann Arbor Campus, Ann Arbor, MI
: Full/Part Time: Full-Time
: Regular/Temporary: Regular
: FLSA Status: Exempt
: Organizational Group: Inst Soc Research
: Department: ICPSR - Metadata and Preservat
: Posting Begin/End Date: 2/08/2022 - 3/18/2022
: Career Interest: Primary

The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR) is part of the Institute for Social Research (ISR) at the University of Michigan. The consortium maintains the world’s largest archive of downloadable and reusable digitized social and behavioral health research data, relating to education, aging, criminal justice, substance abuse, terrorism, and more. A global leader in data science, ICPSR also supports continuing education in research design, statistics, and data analysis. ICPSR employs 20 research faculty, 150 professional staff, and has an annual operating revenue of more than $15 million. 

ICPSR also maintains the ICPSR Bibliography of Data-related Literature, a unique, curated database of over 100,000 citations to publications that use the data in ICPSR’s holdings. The Bibliography links the citations to the underlying data, providing a freely available resource for students, researchers, instructors, librarians, and others who want to find and read the literature in which research data were analyzed.

ICPSR’s Metadata and Preservation unit is seeking an Associate Librarian to join the team that continues to build the ICPSR Bibliography. You must thrive working independently as a detective in the scholarly literature, scrutinizing publications for data use. You will search for publications to link to a portfolio of studies representing a broad range of social, political, demographic, and behavioral research conducted in the United States and internationally. You not only will populate the ICPSR Bibliography’s citations database by curating and linking each citation you add, you will make use of that database to create instructional and other resources to highlight research data and its impact on scholarship.

Beyond your skills in bibliographic searching and resource creation, this position requires experience with database population and manipulation, as well as independent project management. The Associate Librarian reports to the Librarian who manages the ICPSR Bibliography.

**Responsibilities***

Bibliographic Searching

- Create overall search strategy to find data-related publications for selected portions of the ICPSR catalog of studies.
- Conduct advanced searches in a variety of online bibliographic databases and other scholarly resources. 
- Browse relevant professional journals and bibliographic sites for both peer-reviewed and grey literature.
- Become expert in recognizing incomplete or informal references to specific data collections, since research data are not often cited in the formal References list.

Oracle Database Population

- Enter citation metadata into records in an Oracle database.
- Read descriptive study metadata and determine which ICPSR study accession numbers to use when populating citation records.
- Enter existing lists of author-submitted data-related publications into the bibliographic database, first verifying their accuracy and relevance by finding and evaluating the full text.

Project Management

- Track all bibliographic database queries performed, by source.
- Conduct systematic notation of relevant information associated with each query.
- Monitor and notate the name forms used by authors to refer to data studies.
- Make use of multiple tracking spreadsheets to contribute to team knowledge and conduct cross-work collaboration.

Query Alert Management and API Integration

- Set email query alerts in bibliographic databases on publisher platforms.
- Help create API queries on publisher platforms and modify existing API queries as needed.
- Assist with integration of API results into Bibliography team workflow.

Instructional Resources Creation/Outreach

- Identify opportunities to make use of the large database of data-linked literature to create instructional resources for ICPSR’s site visitors.
- Research and write topically cohesive literature reviews around a set of publications that analyze ICPSR data.

- Contribute to the profession, whether through committee work, research, writing, publishing, or other relevant activity. 

**Required Qualifications***

- ALA accredited Master's degree in information/library science. A different advanced degree is acceptable in some cases. 
- 3 years of experience in an academic setting conducting bibliographic searches, with demonstrated expertise in constructing queries in scholarly literature databases and in authoritative Internet sources.
- Deep curiosity about the scholarly output created from secondary use of research data.
- Experience examining peer-reviewed publications for specific information.
- Good understanding of the terminology associated with methodologies and practices discussed in the social and behavioral health sciences literature.
- Excellent writing skills, especially in literature summarization or review. 
- Experience managing complex collections.
- Demonstrated independence, responsibility, and judgment overseeing projects.
- Demonstrated experience performing accurate data entry.
- Demonstrated productivity working independently in a remote or hybrid job environment.
- Highly-focused, organized, and detail-oriented.
- Advanced knowledge of Microsoft Excel.

**Desired Qualifications***

- Experience using SQL and Python.
- Experience using XML or JSON.
- Experience interacting with one or more publisher platform API web services.
- Working knowledge of Zotero or other citation management software.
- 2 or more years of supervisory experience.

**Additional Information**

The Institute for Social Research at the University of Michigan seeks to recruit and retain a diverse workforce as a reflection of our commitment to serve the diverse people of Michigan, to maintain the excellence of the university, and to ground our research in varied disciplines, perspectives, and ways of knowing and learning. 

**Benefits**

In addition to a career filled with purpose and opportunity, U-M offers a comprehensive benefits package to help you stay well, protect yourself and your family, and plan for a secure future. Benefits include generous time off; retirement plan with two-for-one matching contributions after the first year; many choices for comprehensive health insurance; life insurance; long-term disability coverage; and flexible spending accounts for healthcare and dependent care expenses.

A hybrid work schedule, allowing for part-time remote work, may be available. Learn more about U-M benefits.

**Application Deadline**

Job openings are posted for a minimum of seven calendar days.  The review and selection process may begin as early as the eighth day after posting. This opening may be removed from posting boards and filled anytime after the minimum posting period has ended.

**U-M EEO/AA Statement**

The University of Michigan is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.

**U-M COVID-19 Vaccination Policy**

COVID-19 vaccinations, including boosters when eligible, are required for all University of Michigan students, faculty and staff across all campuses, including Michigan Medicine.  This includes those working remotely.   More information on this new policy is available on the Campus Blueprint website or the UM-Dearborn and UM-Flint websites.