+++
title = "University Data Archivist"
employer = "University of Minnesota - Twin Cities"
employerurl = "https://www.umn.edu/"
moreinfourl = "http://z.umn.edu/ulib453"
postdate = "2022-12-02"
archivedate = "2022-12-22"
draft = "false"
+++

**University Data Archivist**

The University of Minnesota College of Liberal Arts LATIS is hiring a Digital Materials and Collections Researcher! 

**About the Job**

The University Data Archivist serves a core operational role and provides measurable impact for the University of Minnesota Libraries in developing and sustaining research and institutional data preservation services for the institutional repository–the University Digital Conservancy (UDC), the Data Repository for the University of Minnesota (DRUM), and the University Archives.

The University Data Archivist integrates technologies, processes, resources, and people to sustain services, modifies practices and procedures to improve process, and makes independent daily operational decisions to manage the repository. The Data Archivist is part of a team within the University Archives focused on digital preservation and access and works closely with the Digital Preservation and Repository Technologies unit and the Electronic Records Management Group. The Data Archivist partners with colleagues in Research Services, including the Research Data Services Librarian, the Research Data Services group, and the Director of the Digital Curation Network (DCN). The position reports to the University Archivist and Director of the University Digital Conservancy.

**Responsibilities:**

**Data Repository Operations (50%):**

The University Data Archivist provides timely data repository operational management and coordination of curation tasks with an interdisciplinary team of data curators in the University Libraries for incoming data deposits to DRUM.

- Appraises all dataset submissions including file format review, appropriateness for repository scope, and submitted metadata and documentation.
- Approves, rejects, or refers researchers to disciplinary repositories as appropriate and in consultation with data curators when determining the appropriateness of datasets.
- Triages and assigns all incoming datasets for curation service to data curators or recommends for the Data Curation Network.
- Provides workflows for submitters, assigns DOIs, and curates datasets as needed.
- Provides consultation services for researchers with questions about submitting to the data repository or during the data upload process.
- Supports system-wide dataset submissions through campus libraries into existing curation and publication workflows.
- Manages the datarepo@umn.edu email account and provides timely and high-quality customer service to DRUM submitters and inquiries.
- Coordinates training of workflow process and publication of datasets in DRUM for data curators, and responds to curator questions.
- Supports post-curation work, including versioning datasets, managing embargo requests, and updating metadata on dataset records and in DataCite for DOIs.
- Works with Digital Records and Repositories Archivist and/or System Administrator to troubleshoot technical or operational issues with the repository, or to put new features/workflows into place for DRUM.

Contributes to policies and procedures for datasets added to the University Archives and the UDC/DRUM, including the discussion of metadata standards, the migration of formats, identifying issues of data retrieval and sharing, the application of federal laws and university policies, and digital preservation.

- Applies policies, guidelines, and best practices for managing datasets.
- Performs pre-accessioning digital evaluation on data deposits and applies digital preservation strategies to newly acquired content at the point of ingest in the repository.
- Investigates new data file formats submitted to the repository.
- Identifies and defines repository process and data curation improvements.
- Maintains awareness of other repositories and their practices/criteria, to assist with redirecting datasets as necessary.
- Meets regularly with the UDC Director, the Digital Records and Repositories Archivist, and the Research Data Services Librarian to remain current on repository planning and to coordinate responses for repository-related issues.
- Participates in committees or working groups related to the data repository including Research Data Services (RDS), DRUM Curators, and DSpace Management Group.


**Data Appraisal & Description (25%)**

Provides digital appraisal services for faculty and campus units to identify at-risk datasets and develops workflows to preserve their data in all formats within the UDC/DRUM or within the records collection of the University Archives.

- Promotes the UDC/DRUM as a digital repository platform for open access and long-term preservation when working with faculty, departments, and centers.
- Assists curators and liaisons in content recruitment by identifying digital resources that require long-term preservation and merit sustained access, including datasets.

Expands access to the digital and analog research datasets within the faculty research collections and university office records held in the University Archives through archival description.

- Maintains in-house knowledge of our physical-based institutional and research data collections to facilitate re-use and research.
- Develops appraisal process for analog data collections and description practices based on archival standards and data curation workflows.


**Institutional Data Preservation (25%)**
Enhances public engagement and transparency through collaborating with system-wide administrative offices to capture and preserve institutional data that documents university functions and initiatives for public accountability and of historical significance.

- Provides outreach to administrative offices of the university to identify and gather institutional data and builds relationships with administrators, departments, centers, units, etc.
- Describes incoming institutional data records for public access and use through the UDC or archival collection guides (ArchivesSpace).

Salary: This is a full-time, 12-month, annual renewable, professional appointment.  The salary minimum for this position is $58,500 depending on qualifications. 

**Qualifications**

**Required:**

- Masters' degree from and American Library Association accredited library school or an advanced degree with relevant experience.
- Experience working with datasets, data appraisal, and/or data curation.
- Experience working with repository platforms or content management systems.
- Demonstrated understanding of digital preservation strategies.
- Commitment to diversity, equity, respect, and inclusion.

**Preferred:**

- Demonstrated understanding of scientific or social sciences research methods and data collection processes.
- Experience in project management and process documentation.
- Proficiency with data management tools (e.g., MS Excel, OpenRefine).
- Facility in use of technology or coding languages.
- Familiarity with metadata standards and archival description practices.
- Keen interest in problem-solving and analytical solutions.
- Ability to work effectively both independently and in cooperation with colleagues in a service-oriented, collaborative environment.

**Benefits**

**Working at the University**

At the University of Minnesota, you’ll find a flexible work environment and supportive colleagues who are interested in lifelong learning.  We prioritize work-life balance, allowing you to invest in the future of your career and in your life outside of work.

The University also offers a comprehensive benefits package that includes:

- Competitive wages, paid holidays, and generous time off
- Continuous learning opportunities through professional training and degree-seeking programs supported by the [Regents Scholarship](https://onestop.umn.edu/finances/regents-scholarship-program)
- Low-cost medical, dental, and pharmacy plans
- Healthcare and dependent care flexible spending accounts
- University HSA contributions
- Disability and employer-paid life insurance
- Employee wellbeing program
- Excellent retirement plans with employer contribution
- Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) [opportunity](https://studentaid.gov/manage-loans/forgiveness-cancellation/public-service)
- Financial counseling services 
- Employee Assistance Program with eight sessions of counseling at no cost

Please visit the [Office of Human Resources website](https://z.umn.edu/BenefitsSummaries) for more information regarding benefits.


**Diversity**

The University recognizes and values the importance of diversity and inclusion in enriching the employment experience of its employees and in supporting the academic mission.  The University is committed to attracting and retaining employees with varying identities and backgrounds.

The University of Minnesota provides equal access to and opportunity in its programs, facilities, and employment without regard to race, color, creed, religion, national origin, gender, age, marital status, disability, public assistance status, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression.  To learn more about diversity at the U:  [http://diversity.umn.edu](http://diversity.umn.edu).

**Employment Requirements**

Any offer of employment is contingent upon the successful completion of a background check. Our presumption is that prospective employees are eligible to work here. Criminal convictions do not automatically disqualify finalists from employment.

Please note: All employees at the University of Minnesota are required to comply with the University’s Administrative Policy: COVID-19 Vaccination and Safety Protocol by either providing proof of being fully vaccinated on their first day of employment, or complete a request for an exemption for medical exemption or religious reasons. To learn more please visit:  [https://safe-campus.umn.edu/return-campus/get-the-vax](https://safe-campus.umn.edu/return-campus/get-the-vax)

**About the U of M**

The University of Minnesota, Twin Cities (UMTC), is among the largest public research universities in the country, offering undergraduate, graduate, and professional students a multitude of opportunities for study and research. Located at the heart of one of the nation's most vibrant, diverse metropolitan communities, students on the campuses in Minneapolis and St. Paul benefit from extensive partnerships with world-renowned health centers, international corporations, government agencies, and arts, nonprofit, and public service organizations.

**Job Location**

Minneapolis, MN
