+++
title = "Access Services Librarian"
employer = "Seton Hall University"
employerurl = "https://www.shu.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://jobs.shu.edu/en-us/job/495122/access-services-librarian"
postdate = "2022-04-19"
archivedate = "2022-07-01"
draft = "false"
+++
Access Services Librarian
: Full time/Part time: Full-time
: Location: South Orange
: Categories: Faculty

Seton Hall University Libraries invites applications for our Access Services Librarian position. This is a full-time tenure-track permanent library faculty position. We seek an enthusiastic, service-oriented individual to develop and provide leadership for Access Services, its attendant units (Stacks, Interlibrary Loan, Circulation, Course Reserves), and staff. Second master’s degree along with publishing and service will be required for tenure.
Reporting to the Assistant Dean for Public Services, the Access Services Librarian performs a variety of oversight, supervision and operational management duties requiring substantial knowledge of various library systems and procedures to provide access to collections, process library materials, and assist patrons in the use of library resources. This highly visible position operates in a busy environment and involves actively assisting users and monitoring multiple library functions.

**Duties and Responsibilities:**

- Provides supervision of day-to-day activities and strategic vision through goals and leadership, in all units.
- Proposes, implements, and evaluates current services through usage statistics, as well as recommends innovative services and enhancements for Access Services.
- Provides leadership for full-time & part-time staff members, as well as student employees.
- Delivers excellent service and prioritizes service needs in a busy, dynamic public service environment, that fosters a positive and inclusive environment within the unit and the library.
- Works collaboratively with other departments in the library to provide feedback and develop services.
- Provides project management for various units within the department and in areas of intersection with other units.
- Prioritizes multiple tasks and works productively in a team environment.
- Supervises and oversees scheduling of full and part-time staff.
- Provides reference & research support to students, faculty and staff, as needed.
- Participates in the library’s instruction program.
- Contributes to scholarly communication efforts of Seton Hall University Libraries.

**Required Qualifications:**

- ALA-accredited master's degree in library or information studies.
- Minimum of 1-3 years relevant experience in Access Services, such as circulation, course reserves document delivery or interlibrary loan in an academic library.
- Supervisory experience leading, developing, and managing staff.
- Strong analytical and project management skills with a demonstrated ability to think strategically, set priorities, meet deadlines and complete tasks and projects on time with little supervision.
- Strong patron service skills and the commitment to serve students, faculty, and staff.

**Desired Qualifications:**

- Demonstrated knowledge of current developments and trends in circulation, reserves, and interlibrary loan in academic libraries.
- Experience in a unionized environment.
- Academic reference desk experience.
- Teaching or instruction experience.
- Additional areas of expertise or interest could include a basic understanding of copyright, authors’ rights, open publishing, license issues, and/or reserve issues.
- Occasionally requires lifting and moving loads weighing up to 50 pounds; must be able to push heavy library book trucks.
- We strongly encourage diverse applicants, including, but not limited to race, gender identity, sexual orientation, disability, national origin, or veteran status.

Salary Grade: FA01 - Faculty
Exempt/Nonexempt: Exempt