+++
title = "Data Project Assistant"
employer = "University of Michigan, ICPSR"
employerurl = "https://www.umich.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.umich.edu/job_detail/212173/data-project-assistant"
postdate = "2022-02-16"
archivedate = "2022-04-10"
draft = "false"
+++
Working Title: Data Project Assistant
: Job Title: Research Technician Lead
: Work Location: Ann Arbor Campus, Ann Arbor, MI
: Full/Regular
: FLSA Status: Nonexempt
: Organizational Group: Inst Soc Research
: Department: ICPSR - Project Management and
: Salary: $42,000.00 - $46,000.00
: Career Interest: Research

The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research, the world's largest archive of social science data, is now accepting applications for a Data Project Assistant to assist with training and outreach, website support, and project management on the National Archive of Criminal Justice Data (NACJD).

You will report to Becky Chu, Data Project Manager.

**Responsibilities***

Position responsibilities include:

Data Deposit Coordination

You will assist the National Institute of Justice (NIJ) Project Manager in reviewing deposited data and documentation. This includes communicating with data producers and NIJ Grant Managers to ensure deposits are complete and ready for curation.

Training, Outreach, and User Client Communication

You will assist with various outreach-related tasks, including planning, executing, and providing support for data training in multiple formats. You will also assist with data dissemination activities including planning data webinars with data producers, promoting and hosting webinars, developing data release announcements, developing and distributing newsletters, planning conference exhibits; and creating new dissemination-related resources.

Website Content Support

You will assist Project Managers and work with the ICPSR Web team to keep website content up-to-date. You will also help plan and create data resources and other website content; and conduct periodic, regular website testing.

Project Support

You will assist Project Managers with various project management tasks, including documenting project activities and creating progress and usage reports; answering user support inquiries and assisting with project sponsor inquiries; assisting with scheduling meetings, compiling call summary notes, and tracking project activities; and other special projects as assigned.

**Required Qualifications***

- Bachelor's degree
- 2+ years (1 year for Senior Level) of related experience
- Experience with or general knowledge of statistical processing software such as SPSS, SAS, or Stata

**Desired Qualifications***

- Experience with criminal justice data
- User support or customer service experience
- Experience in a research setting
- Experience producing content for external audiences
- Experience conducting outreach, coordinating webinars, and website content development

**Underfill Statement**

This posting may be filled at the Lead or Senior level, depending on qualifications.

**Additional Information**

The Institute for Social Research (ISR) at the University of Michigan seeks to recruit and retain a diverse workforce as a reflection of our commitment to serve the diverse people of Michigan, to maintain the excellence of the university, and to ground our research in varied disciplines, perspectives, and ways of knowing and learning.

**Benefits**

In addition to a career filled with purpose and opportunity, U-M offers a comprehensive benefits package to help you stay well, protect yourself and your family, and plan for a secure future. Benefits include generous time off; retirement plan with two-for-one matching contributions after the first year; many choices for comprehensive health insurance; life insurance; long-term disability coverage; and flexible spending accounts for healthcare and dependent care expenses. Learn more about U-M benefits.

**U-M EEO/AA Statement**

The University of Michigan is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.

**U-M COVID-19 Vaccination Policy**

COVID-19 vaccinations, including boosters when eligible, are required for all University of Michigan students, faculty and staff across all campuses, including Michigan Medicine.  This includes those working remotely.   More information on this new policy is available on the Campus Blueprint website or the UM-Dearborn and UM-Flint websites.