+++
title = "Data Science Librarian"
employer = "Baylor University"
employerurl = "https://www.baylor.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://apply.interfolio.com/101766"
postdate = "2022-03-02"
archivedate = "2022-07-01"
draft = "false"
+++
Baylor University: Office of the Provost: Libraries
: Location: Waco, Texas
: Open Date: Feb 22, 2022
: Deadline: May 03, 2022 at 11:59 PM Eastern Time

The Data Science Librarian (DSL) serves as a core member of the Data and Digital Scholarship (DDS) division of the Research & Engagement department, assisting the division’s existing educational programs and research to support data-driven research and scholarship across the university. The DSL will work closely with DDS faculty and staff to further the library’s commitment to support data-related and digital scholarship research at every stage of the research lifecycle, with a focus on research data management, data visualization, and data analytics. Additionally, the DSL will serve as a liaison to one or more departments involved with data science initiatives. This is an academic professional position with faculty status.

**SPECIFIC DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:**

- Provides data science and digital scholarship services to support the needs of the Baylor University research community.
- Provides ongoing training to library subject liaisons to increase liaison capabilities to triage data-related support.
- Assess the usefulness of existing and emerging data science tools and methods.
- Provides a leadership role in the library’s research data management program, and serves as the administrator to Baylor University’s instance of the Texas Data Repository, managed by the Texas Digital Library.
- Serves as a liaison to one or more departments involved with data science initiatives on campus. In addition to acquiring relevant subject knowledge, the DSL is actively involved with assigned departments through outreach and engagement, research services, teaching and learning, collections, and scholarly communication.
- Designs and implements pedagogically appropriate instruction in a variety of modes, methods, and materials and integrates data literacy concepts and skills into curricula, courses, assignments, and learning experiences.
- Pursues professional development opportunities through local and national conferences, meetings, and workshops and involvement in professional organizations.
- Engages in library-wide initiatives through committees and task forces.
- Meets University and Library expectations for service and scholarship, including participation in the academic library community through research, presentations, and writing on topics related to areas of responsibility.

**Qualifications**

REQUIRED JOB QUALIFICATIONS:

- ALA-accredited master's degree in library/information science or equivalent combination of education and professional experience, such as an advanced degree in data science, computer science, GIS, statistics, or related field. New graduates encouraged to apply.
- Academic background or knowledge to support proficiency in one or more of the following areas: research data management, data visualization, data analytics.
- Enthusiasm for learning, integrating, and teaching new and emerging technologies.
- Ability to work collaboratively with colleagues and a diverse clientele in a service-oriented, research-intensive environment.
- Effective organizational, teaching, and presentation skills.
- Ability to manage multiple simultaneous projects and competing priorities.
- Ability to communicate and work effectively in an academic setting, with demonstrated skills in oral communication, written communication, and interpersonal interaction.

DESIRED JOB QUALIFICATIONS:

- Familiarity with current and emerging trends in data-science in academic research as demonstrated through coursework or work experience.
- Hands-on experience working with data in a research setting.
- Track record in project development from inception to launch and continuous development.
- Experience assessing student learning and library instruction.

**Application Instructions**

All applications materials should be submitted through Interfolio.

**Equal Employment Opportunity Statement**

Baylor University is a private not-for-profit university affiliated with the Baptist General Convention of Texas. As an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity employer, Baylor is committed to compliance with all applicable anti-discrimination laws, including those regarding age, race, color, sex, national origin, pregnancy status, military service, genetic information, and disability. As a religious educational institution, Baylor is lawfully permitted to consider an applicant’s religion as a selection criterion. Baylor encourages women, minorities, veterans, and individuals with disabilities to apply.
