+++
title = "Data Project Manager"
employer = "University of Michican, ICPSR"
employerurl = "https://www.umich.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.umich.edu/job_detail/211586/data-project-manager"
postdate = "2022-02-14"
archivedate = "2022-04-10"
draft = "false"
+++

Working Title: Data Project Manager
: Job Title: General Programmer/Analyst Sr
: Work Location: Ann Arbor Campus, Ann Arbor, MI
: Full-Time/Regular
: FLSA Status: Exempt
: Organizational Group: Inst Soc Research
: Department: SRC-Social Envir & Health
: Posting Begin/End Date: 2/02/2022 - 3/02/2022
: Salary: $68,000.00 - $80,000.00
: Career Interest: Information Technology

The Social Environment and Health Program within the University of Michigan's Institute for Social Research examines social inequalities in health, including the role of structural and cultural racism, toxic and built environments, climate change, and the molecular pathways linking neighborhood context to health inequalities. The data project manager contributes to SEH research projects such as the National Neighborhood Data Archive (NaNDA), the Americans’ Changing Lives’ (ACL) study, and the Weatherization and Health Effects (WHE) study, among others in the program. For more information, please see https://seh.isr.umich.edu/.

**What You'll Do**

Your responsibilities will vary depending on the needs of each project, but will include:

Data Management (50%)

- Manage access to research data generated from and used for SEH research projects (e.g., survey data, participant contact information, and measures of neighborhood context). Ensure that access to restricted data is consistent with the relevant data access guidelines and that confidentiality of participants and their data is maintained.
- Use SAS, Stata, R, or other statistical software to create data outputs and transfer data between sources (e.g., to create survey preloads or update participant information within internal databases).
- Lead efforts to clean research data generated from SEH research projects.
- Lead data quality projects for longitudinal study data (e.g., tracking of addresses and death status for participants in longitudinal studies).
- Document data management practices.

Data Curation (30%)

- Improve data outputs and make them more user friendly (e.g., adding labels, applying codes for missingness, or renaming variables for consistency).
- Write codebooks, user guides, and other documentation aimed at helping future researchers use and reuse SEH research data.
- Prepare datasets for sharing in the ICPSR/openICPSR data repositories.
- Organize research outputs on shared network drives.
- Document data curation practices.

Other Duties (20%)

- Plan and participate in training sessions, webinars, and other outreach activities to promote the use of SEH research data, as requested.
- Engage in efforts to publicize SEH research (e.g., creating promotional materials or generating ideas for social media coverage).
- Assist faculty and relevant research staff with project management for funded longitudinal projects.
- Supervise project students and temporary staff.
- Work with SEH principal investigators to help plan and manage research activities (e.g., setting up protocols for a new study, conducting a new wave of data collection for a longitudinal study, or revising previously created neighborhood measures with new data).
- Define project plans, track unresolved questions, and track progress toward project completion.
- Schedule project team meetings, set agendas, take minutes, and track action items.

**Required Qualifications***

- Master’s degree in library and information science, social science, public health, or a related field.
- 3 or more years of experience related to the responsibilities of the position.
- Experience working with large datasets using Stata, SAS, SPSS, R, SQL, or other similar tools.
- Experience working with human subjects data or other sensitive, access-restricted, or confidential data.

**Desired Qualifications***

- Experience with learning and adapting to new software and systems.
- Experience with application testing.
- Proficiency in Microsoft Access.
- Proficiency in Stata and SAS.

**Work Locations**

This position will be on-site at the University of Michigan offices in Ann Arbor, with flexible scheduling and remote opportunities made available within our overall Center policies. If relocation is required, we will allow for reasonable time and flexibility to make necessary arrangements.

**Additional Information**

The Institute for Social Research at the University of Michigan seeks to recruit and retain a diverse workforce as a reflection of our commitment to serve the diverse people of Michigan, to maintain the excellence of the university, and to ground our research in varied disciplines, perspectives, and ways of knowing and learning.

**Benefits at the University of Michigan**

In addition to a career filled with purpose and opportunity, the University of Michigan offers a comprehensive benefits package to help you stay well, protect yourself and any eligible family members, and to plan for a secure future.  Benefits include:

- Generous time off
- A retirement plan that provides two-for-one matching contributions with immediate vesting upon meeting eligibility requirements
- Many choices for comprehensive health insurance
- Life insurance
- Long-term disability coverage
- Flexible spending accounts for healthcare and dependent care expenses.

**Background Screening**

The University of Michigan conducts background checks on all job candidates upon acceptance of a contingent offer and may use a third-party administrator to conduct background checks.  Background checks are performed in compliance with the Fair Credit Reporting Act.

**U-M EEO/AA Statement**

The University of Michigan is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.

**U-M COVID-19 Vaccination Policy**

COVID-19 vaccinations, including boosters when eligible, are required for all University of Michigan students, faculty and staff across all campuses, including Michigan Medicine.  This includes those working remotely.   More information on this new policy is available on the Campus Blueprint website or the UM-Dearborn and UM-Flint websites.
