+++
title = "Digital Materials and Collections Researcher"
employer = "University of Minnesota - Twin Cities"
employerurl = "https://www.umn.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://jobsearch.cla.umn.edu/352601"
postdate = "2022-11-11"
archivedate = "2022-12-08"
draft = "false"
+++

**Digital Materials and Collections Researcher**

The University of Minnesota College of Liberal Arts LATIS is hiring a Digital Materials and Collections Researcher! 

**About the Job**

**Position Overview:**
This position is located in the Research Support Services team in LATIS. The employee will be responsible for supporting faculty, graduate students and staff in the humanities, arts, and social sciences to advance their research and scholarly work. The employee will work collaboratively with professional staff in the Advanced Imaging Service for Objects and Spaces (AISOS) lab, the Research Support and Infrastructure teams, other teams in LATIS, as well as in the University Libraries and across the University to strengthen and support imaging research and collections across the liberal arts.

A successful person in this role will collaborate effectively with departmental IT staff, researchers, and graduate students from a variety of different backgrounds.  They will be excited about opportunities for supporting and furthering world-class research on life-changing topics. They will be comfortable with complexity and working across a range of technology platforms.

Indigenous, LGBTQIA+, gender nonconforming, people of color, women, and members of other historically underrepresented communities are highly encouraged to apply, as are people with non-traditional academic or experiential backgrounds.

to learn more about this position and about working in LATIS visit us at [z.umn.edu/latisjobs](http://z.umn.edu/latisjobs)

**Compensation:**

Mid $50,000s - $75,000 depending on qualifications and experience.

**Location:** This is a hybrid position.  Office location is in Heller Hall on Twin Cities - west bank campus. 


**Job Responsibilities**

**Research Consultation and Support (40%)**

- Assist researchers with managing and organizing qualitative and media materials to ensure they follow best practices for long-term storage and access.
- Consult on methods and approaches for digitizing and documenting research materials for scholars in the arts, humanities, and other liberal arts fields.
- Collaborate with other service providers on campus, including the University Libraries, to enhance support for the arts and humanities.
- Identify and advocate for collegiate needs for support and services to advance research and scholarly work in the arts and humanities.

**Scanning and Digitization Support (30%)**

- Investigate and experiment to find hardware and software solutions to unique imaging related problems across arts, humanities, and qualitative social sciences.
- In collaboration with professional staff in the AISOS lab, help consult with students, staff, and faculty on advanced imaging projects.
- Capture and process scans from a variety of sources and for a variety of project types, including 2D / 2.5D image data (e.g., digital photography, flatbed scanning, gigapixel imaging, reflectance transformation imaging, scanning electron microscopy) and 3D models (e.g., photogrammetry, structured light scanning, optical profilometry).
- Support independent scholarly use of scanning equipment.

**Access and Dissemination of Scholarly Materials (30%)**

- Consult on best practices for documentation of materials, including metadata schemas, organization, and cataloging workflows.
- Provide technical support and consultation for scholars designing their own platforms for sharing through UMN Elevator or other digital exhibit sites.
- Assist scholars in discovering, accessing, and disseminating scholarly materials, including images and other media, through the Digital Content Library (DCL) and other sources.

**Qualifications**

*Note: Don’t meet every single requirement? In LATIS we are dedicated to building a diverse, inclusive and authentic workplace, so if you’re excited about this role but your past experience doesn’t align perfectly with every qualification in the job description, we encourage you to apply anyways. You may be just the right candidate for this or other roles.*

**Required Qualifications:**

- Bachelor’s Degree plus five years experience, or an advanced degree with three years experience, or a combination of related education and work experience to equal nine years. Note that education and experience may be concurrent.


**Preferred Qualifications:**

- Experience in data management, digital collections, curation, or archiving
- Research experience or interest in a Liberal Arts field
- Excellent research management, organizational, and documentation skills
- Experience researching in a scholarly archive
- Familiarity with digital content management practices and tools, such as Omeka, Scalar, or Drupal
- Experience with 2D image editing and graphics software (e.g., Adobe Photoshop / Adobe Illustrator)
- Experience with 3D scanning and / or 3D modeling processes and  software (e.g., Agisoft Metashape, Blender, Zbrush)

**About the Department**

**Program/Unit Description**

Liberal Arts Technologies and Innovation Services (LATIS) exists to elevate liberal arts teaching, learning, and research. We provide discipline-specific expertise, facilities, and technology services to spur innovation in the liberal arts and further the college’s mission by enhancing learning, advancing research, developing scholars, improving processes, and strengthening connections. Our values include: thriving at the intersections of liberal arts and technology, continually adapting to a changing environment, and believing in relationships as much as outcomes.

The LATIS work environment is dynamic, creative, and collaborative. Teamwork is core to how we operate and get things done. Within this environment, it is important to have strong communication skills, be comfortable with ambiguity, and be flexible during times of change. We encourage and foster creative thinking and new ideas. 

**About the College of Liberal Arts**

Home to the arts, social science and humanities disciplines and programs, the College of Liberal Arts comprises 31 academic departments, and over 20 interdisciplinary research centers and administrative/support units. CLA has over 1200 faculty and staff spanning research, teaching, advising, outreach, and administrative functions. CLA units reside in over twenty buildings on the East Bank and West Bank of the Twin Cities campus. CLA enrolls nearly 14,000 undergraduate students, half of the undergraduate enrollment on the Twin Cities campus, and over 1,600 graduate students and has an annual all-funds budget of over $250 million.

CLA is a destination for curious, compassionate individuals who are committed to making our increasingly interdependent and diverse global community work for everyone. That [foundational commitment begins in our CLA Constitution](https://cla.umn.edu/about/our-mission-values). CLA is committed to increasing enrollment of underrepresented and under-resourced students, diversifying our faculty across all disciplines, recruiting, and retaining a diverse staff, and promoting the expression and exploration of diverse perspectives and viewpoints—so that we all gain the background knowledge and analytical skills we need to understand and respect differences.

[Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in CLA](https://cla.umn.edu/about/diversity-equity-and-inclusion-cla)

[Working in CLA](https://cla.umn.edu/about/working-cla)

**Benefits**

**Working at the University**

At the University of Minnesota, you’ll find a flexible work environment and supportive colleagues who are interested in lifelong learning.  We prioritize work-life balance, allowing you to invest in the future of your career and in your life outside of work.

The University also offers a comprehensive benefits package that includes:

- Competitive wages, paid holidays, and generous time off
- Continuous learning opportunities through professional training and degree-seeking programs supported by the [Regents Scholarship](https://onestop.umn.edu/finances/regents-scholarship-program)
- Low-cost medical, dental, and pharmacy plans
- Healthcare and dependent care flexible spending accounts
- University HSA contributions
- Disability and employer-paid life insurance
- Employee wellbeing program
- Excellent retirement plans with employer contribution
- Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) [opportunity](https://studentaid.gov/manage-loans/forgiveness-cancellation/public-service)
- Financial counseling services 
- Employee Assistance Program with eight sessions of counseling at no cost

Please visit the [Office of Human Resources website](https://z.umn.edu/BenefitsSummaries) for more information regarding benefits.

**How To Apply**

Applications must be submitted online.  To be considered for this position, please click the Apply button and follow the instructions.  You will be given the opportunity to complete an online application for the position and attach a cover letter and resume.

Additional documents may be attached after application by accessing your "My Job Applications" page and uploading documents in the "My Cover Letters and Attachments" section.

To request an accommodation during the application process, please e-mail employ@umn.edu or call (612) 624-UOHR (8647).

Priority Application Deadline: December 12, 2022

Applications wlll be accepted through December 22, 2022

Interviews will being the week of January 2, 2023

**Diversity**

The University recognizes and values the importance of diversity and inclusion in enriching the employment experience of its employees and in supporting the academic mission.  The University is committed to attracting and retaining employees with varying identities and backgrounds.

The University of Minnesota provides equal access to and opportunity in its programs, facilities, and employment without regard to race, color, creed, religion, national origin, gender, age, marital status, disability, public assistance status, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression.  To learn more about diversity at the U: [http://diversity.umn.edu](http://diversity.umn.edu).

**Employment Requirements**

Any offer of employment is contingent upon the successful completion of a background check. Our presumption is that prospective employees are eligible to work here. Criminal convictions do not automatically disqualify finalists from employment.

Please note: All employees at the University of Minnesota are required to comply with the University’s Administrative Policy: COVID-19 Vaccination and Safety Protocol by either providing proof of being fully vaccinated on their first day of employment, or complete a request for an exemption for medical exemption or religious reasons. To learn more please visit:  [https://safe-campus.umn.edu/return-campus/get-the-vax](https://safe-campus.umn.edu/return-campus/get-the-vax)

**About the U of M**

The University of Minnesota, Twin Cities (UMTC), is among the largest public research universities in the country, offering undergraduate, graduate, and professional students a multitude of opportunities for study and research. Located at the heart of one of the nation's most vibrant, diverse metropolitan communities, students on the campuses in Minneapolis and St. Paul benefit from extensive partnerships with world-renowned health centers, international corporations, government agencies, and arts, nonprofit, and public service organizations.

**Job Location**

Minneapolis, MN
