+++
title = "Data Repository Operations Officer"
employer = "University of Edinburgh"
employerurl = "https://www.ed.ac.uk."
moreinfourl = "https://elxw.fa.em3.oraclecloud.com/hcmUI/CandidateExperience/en/sites/CX_1001/job/5057/?utm_medium=jobshare"
postdate = "2022-08-19"
archivedate = "2022-08-22"
draft = "false"
+++
**Information Services/Library and University Collections/Library Research Support**

**Open-ended, 35 hours per week**

We are seeking an expert in research data management with some repository experience to deliver the archiving operations of the Research Data Service.

**The Opportunity:**

This is an exciting time to join the Research Data Support team. Building on successful open source platforms, we are improving and upgrading the University archival systems - Edinburgh DataShare and DataVault - to meet researcher requirements and improve accessibility, performance and security. We collaborate with disciplinary research communities to curate digital research objects and to implement data management plans according to the FAIR principles, in accordance with the 2021 University Research Data Management Policy. As a leading member of the team you will be optimising the research value of every curated dataset and to deliver a state of the art support service.

**Your skills and attributes for success:**

- Understanding of digital repository operations and workflows
- Knowledge of research data management and digital preservation
- Demonstrated troubleshooting ability
- Some supervisory experience or management training

Access the full job description for this role here. For informal enquiries about the role, please contact Robin Rice (R.Rice@ed.ac.uk).

Visit our website: https://www.ed.ac.uk/is/research-data-service

As a valued member of our team you can expect:

An exciting, positive, creative, and challenging place to work. We give you support, nurture your talent and reward success. You will benefit from a competitive reward package and a wide range of staff benefits, which includes a generous holiday entitlement, a defined benefits pension scheme, staff discounts, family friendly initiatives, flexible working and much more. Access our staff benefits page for further information and use our reward calculator to find out the total value of pay and benefits provided.

Edinburgh is regularly voted one of the most desirable places to live in the world. https://www.ed.ac.uk/visit/city

The University of Edinburgh is committed to advancing equality and celebrating diversity. The University of Edinburgh holds a Silver Athena SWAN award in recognition of our commitment to advance gender equality in higher education. We are members of the Race Equality Charter and we are also Stonewall Scotland Diversity Champions, actively promoting LGBT equality. We welcome applications from all suitably qualified persons. We welcome applicants from ethnic minorities as these groups are currently under-represented at this level in this area.

The closing date for applications is listed above. Interviews will be held soon after in person or on Microsoft Teams.

If invited for interview you will be required to evidence your right to work in the UK. Further information is available on our right to work webpages.

The University is able to sponsor the employment of international workers in this role. If successful, an international applicant requiring sponsorship to work in the UK will need to satisfy the UK Home Office’s English Language requirements and apply for and secure a Skilled Worker Visa.

**About Us**

As a world-leading research-intensive University, we are here to address tomorrow’s greatest challenges. Between now and 2030 we will do that with a values-led approach to teaching, research and innovation, and through the strength of our relationships, both locally and globally.

Library & University Collections Division of Information Services has an annual turnover of £10m and is supported by 150 staff. It provides over 3.5 million books and 60 kilometres of Special Collections, Museum and Art Collections, along with more than 28,000 e-journals and 300,000 e-books. The collections are made available online and through the recently redeveloped £60m Main Library and nine other library sites. Together, this prestigious collection along with modern library buildings generates 2 million visits per year to the Main Library alone. In addition the Library incorporates highly-regarded services to the public and to the University, such as the Centre for Research Collections and the University Historic Musical Instrument Collection - and gives leadership and oversight for all the University's museums and galleries.

Visit https://edin.ac/2OlwmCP for further information on the Information Services organisation.

**About Us**

As a world-leading research-intensive University, we are here to address tomorrow’s greatest challenges. Between now and 2030 we will do that with a values-led approach to teaching, research and innovation, and through the strength of our relationships, both locally and globally.

**About the Team**

Library & University Collections Division has an annual turnover of £10m and is supported by 150 staff.  It provides over 3.5 million books and 60 kilometres of Special Collections, Museum and Art Collections, along with more than 28,000 e-journals and 300,000 e-books. The collections are made available online and through the recently redeveloped £60m Main Library and nine other library sites. Together, this prestigious collection along with modern library buildings generates 2 million visits per year to the Main Library alone. In addition the Library incorporates highly-regarded services to the public and to the University, such as the Centre for Research Collections and the University Historic Musical Instrument Collection - and gives leadership and oversight for all the University's museums and galleries.

Please see http://tinyurl.com/cwhwysv for further information on the Library & Collections Division.