+++
title = "Data Services Librarian"
employer = "Brock University"
employerurl = "https://www.brocku.ca/"
moreinfourl = "https://brocku.wd3.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/brocku_careers/job/Data-Services-Librarian_JR-1013680"
postdate = "2022-10-19"
archivedate = "2022-11-28"
draft = "false"
+++

**Data Services Librarian**

**About the Opportunity**
Brock University Library invites applications for the full-time probationary position of Data Services
Librarian from qualified candidates who will thrive in a dynamic, fluid and team-oriented environment.
Reporting to the Head of the Research Lifecycle department, the successful candidate will provide a full
range of data services and help support services offered in the Map, Data & GIS Library (MDGL). This
includes providing consultations, research support, instruction, and outreach in the discovery, and use
of data, where data includes government, purchased, and geospatial data. This role also provides a
critical conduit between the Brock community and the external data and geospatial communities.
The incumbent will also serve as a member of the Business & Education Faculty Library Team, along with
a member from the departments of Collections Services and Teaching & Learning. The Team will
facilitate regular communication to and from the two Faculties, and support inquiries from faculty, staff,
and students in the Goodman School of Business and Faculty of Education.
The successful candidate will be a member of the Research Lifecycle Department and will:
- Provide leadership in the planning, promotion, and delivery of data services.
- Support the development and promotion of data services, through in-depth consultations,
workshops, and instruction for individuals, groups and classes.
- Support the Data Liberation Initiative (DLI) partnership between Statistics Canada and Brock
University Library; and, as the DLI representative for Brock Library, advise users, download files, and
provide appropriate support.
- Support the development and implementation of a Research Data Management program.
- Engage in collection development of numeric data collections and geospatial data, including
government and purchased data.
- Liaise with data communities by engaging with these communities at the local, national, and
international levels (e.g., DLI, ACMLA, IASSIST and OCUL’s Data Community and Geo Community).
- Engage with MDGL services and offerings, including staffing the library space, interacting with users,
and planning events such as GIS Day and Pi Day
- Share data developments with the Brock Library, as well as Brock’s community of students and
researchers.
- Develop and maintain online learning objects and guides.
- Engage in outreach activities, events, and campus-wide strategic initiatives related to data services.
- Build relationships with faculty members in the Goodman School of Business and Faculty of
Education.
- Facilitate communication to and from the Faculty Library Team.
- Support the Library’s strategic goals through active membership on working groups and project
teams.
- Participate in the development of recommendations for improvements in library-wide policies,
procedures, and services.
- Engage in professional development, scholarly activity, and service under the terms of the Collective
Agreement.
This position is available as of January 1, 2023.

**Qualified candidates will possess the following:**
- A Master’s degree from an ALA-accredited library program or its equivalent
- Familiarity with licensed and open-source geospatial data resources and unique file formats, with
knowledge of GIS and data applications in a range of disciplines.
- Knowledge of research data management principles.
- Demonstrated ability to advise users in a range of disciplines regarding the use of data, including
government, purchased, and geospatial data.
- Understanding of quantitative and qualitative research methods, including survey methods and
output, descriptive statistics, and analysis of microdata.
- Ability to engage students and achieve learning outcomes through effective teaching techniques and
the use of appropriate educational technologies.
- Understanding of assessment concepts and methods.
- Commitment to using new technologies to advance work goals and to enhance service.
- Understanding of government document organization and acquisition.
- Awareness of the importance of inclusivity, accessibility, reconciliation, and decolonization to
academic libraries.
- Ability to work collaboratively with colleagues both internal and external to the library.
- Demonstrated flexibility and ability to manage a diverse workload.
- Effective analytical, problem-solving, communication and interpersonal skills.
- Self-directed, with an ability to balance initiative and independent decision-making with
collaboration and consultation.
- Strong organizational skills.
- Strong service orientation.

**Qualifications Considered an Asset:**
We want to emphasize that these qualifications are considered an asset. They are not required, and
we are committed to helping our future colleague develop these skills if necessary.
- Undergraduate degree in geography or related discipline, such as geomatics.
- Knowledge of information resources in business and/or education.
- Proficiency working with geographic information systems (GIS), especially Esri suite of products:
ArcGIS Pro; ArcGIS Online; Story Map technology; other mapping tools such as QGIS, R and Python
- College diploma in Geographic Information Systems, Geographic Management or equivalent.
- Familiarity with quantitative and qualitative statistical software packages.
- Familiarity with digital scholarship and data visualization trends, tools, and techniques.
- Experience with project management.

**Compensation:**
Brock University offers a competitive salary and an attractive benefits package. It is anticipated that this
appointment will be made at the rank of Librarian I or II. Salary and rank will be commensurate with
experience and qualifications. The position is included in the Brock University Faculty Association (BUFA)
and is governed by the BUFA-Brock Collective Agreement at [https://www.bufa.ca/resources/bufa-collective-agreement/](https://www.bufa.ca/resources/bufa-collective-agreement/).

**About Brock University**

Located at the centre of Canada's beautiful Niagara Peninsula, Brock offers an exciting work
environment with strong undergraduate, graduate and interdisciplinary programs and a vigorous
research culture. Brock offers all the benefits of a young and modern university in a safe, community-
minded city, with beautiful natural surroundings. With over 19,000 students and more than 100
undergraduate and graduate programs in seven diverse Faculties, Brock excels at providing exceptional
experiential learning opportunities and highly rated student and campus life experiences. The
University, including the Library, has a number of concrete initiatives that are aimed at improving equity
and inclusion for all members of the Brock community. One such example is the President’s Committee
on Human Rights, Equity, and Decolonization.
Brock University’s main campus is on land that is the traditional territory of the Haudenosaunee and
Anishinaabe peoples. It is atop the Niagara Escarpment, within a UNESCO World Biosphere Reserve,
overlooking the City of St. Catharines, in the heart of Niagara wine country and is a short drive from
Toronto, Niagara Falls, and Buffalo, New York. Niagara is an exceptional location to call home for the
next stage of your career.
More information on Brock University can be found on the University’s website at
[https://www.brocku.ca/](https://www.brocku.ca/).

**About Brock University Library**

The Brock University Library includes the James A. Gibson Library, the Map, Data & GIS Library, Archives
& Special Collections, as well as the Makerspace within the new Brock LINC facility. With six
departments, a staff of 52 including 20 professional librarians, and an annual budget of over $10 million,
the Library provides services and resources to support over 600 faculty and a growing student body.
Our progressive and talented community of librarians and staff are committed to student success,
collegiality, and collaboration. Our values of Innovation, Integrity, Inspiration and Inclusivity guide all
that we do. The Brock Library strategic plan contains four strategic pillars highlighting student success,
the research lifecycle, community engagement, and strengthening capacity. The library’s IDEA+D
working group has the mandate to identify, develop, and deliver Library initiatives that increase
awareness and promote understanding of Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Accessibility (IDEA) as well as
Decolonization issues.
The Library has recently implemented a new organizational structure intended to align with the Library’s
and the University’s strategic plans. Candidates should be comfortable working in an evolutionary
environment in which the organization continues to grow and change in alignment with strategic
directions.
For further details about the Library, visit [https://www.brocku.ca/library](https://www.brocku.ca/library).

**Job Location**

St. Catherines, ON
