+++
title = "Biological Sciences Librarian (Tenure Track)"
employer = "Rutgers University"
employerurl = "https://rutgers.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://jobs.rutgers.edu/postings/157835"
postdate = "2022-03-14"
archivedate = "2022-06-01"
draft = "false"
+++
Recruitment/Posting Title: Biological Sciences Librarian (Tenure Track)
: Department: RUL New Brunswick Lib
: Salary: Commensurate With Experience

The Rutgers University Libraries seek an innovative, collaborative and service-oriented librarian to serve as Biological Sciences Librarian, who will work with the faculty, students, and researchers in the School of Arts and Sciences biological and life science programs, with the School of Environmental and Biological Sciences departments focusing on biological sciences, as well as with biological sciences-related institutes, centers, and communities interspersed throughout other university schools and departments. This tenure-track position reports to the Associate University Librarian, Rutgers University-New Brunswick. The Biological Sciences Librarian will work with this community to create synergies that span interdisciplinary fields and support intellectual pursuits, while playing a unique collaborative role, and building opportunities essential for research and learning.

**The Biological Sciences Librarian will:**

- Engage and collaborate actively as a liaison to the Rutgers University–New Brunswick biological sciences community by building relationships, developing user-centric resources and services, and participating in engagement and outreach activities as well as Libraries STEM team activities
- Provide expert consultations to departmental faculty and students and manage local collections supporting subject needs
- Develop and deliver course-integrated and resources-specific information literacy instruction in biology-based subject areas, build and maintain subject guides and learning objects to support curricular goals, and assess impact on student learning
- Provide education and outreach on scholarly communication issues including open access, research impact, digital scholarship, and science data management
- Design and deliver engaging learning activities and services for diverse populations
- Collaborate with the sciences librarians in the Rutgers-Newark, Rutgers-Camden, and Rutgers Biological and Health Sciences libraries and with other subject librarians to build robust services and shared online and print collections supporting biology research and education
- Participate in the Libraries shared services including a full range of reference and instructional services for the Rutgers community via multiple modalities, and contribute to the overall goals of the Libraries
- Build partnerships and co-curricular collaborations that advance teaching, learning, and scholarship; participate in university-wide initiatives, committees, and task forces
- Demonstrate commitment to continual professional development and scholarship

This position is a member of the Rutgers University Libraries Faculty, a team of librarians committed to providing first-rate public services to a diverse academic community. This position is expected to collaborate with colleagues across the Libraries to enhance the effectiveness of library services to the University community. This position may require working evenings and weekends. The successful candidate must demonstrate a commitment to continual professional development through scholarly research including publications, presentations, and participation and leadership in the work of relevant professional associations, as required elements for successful promotion and tenure at Rutgers University Libraries. This position will be based in the Library of Science and Medicine on the Busch Campus in Piscataway, NJ. This is a tenure-track faculty position, requiring research, publication and active participation in professional associations.

**Minimum Education and Experience:**

Required:

- Master’s degree from an ALA accredited library school or its equivalent
- a bachelor’s or advanced degree or work experience in biological or life sciences or a related field
- experience with providing reference service and instruction in an academic setting, including online environments
- excellent communication and interpersonal skills
- ability to work collegially in a team-oriented environment
- a demonstrated commitment to foster diversity, equity, and inclusion
- capacity for research, scholarly publication, and service consistent with requirements for tenure and promotion

We strongly encourage those with an interest in the position who meet the required qualifications to apply.

Preferred:

- prior professional experience in librarianship in an academic environment, including collection development, reference, and instruction
- successful experience designing and delivering engaging learning activities and services for diverse populations

Visa sponsorship is not available for this position.

**Overview**

STATUS/BENEFITS: Tenure-track faculty status, twelve-month appointment, retirement plan, life/health insurance, prescription drug and dental plans, tuition remission, and 22 vacation days annually.

LIBRARY PROFILE: Rutgers University Libraries seek to create an inclusive and welcoming environment for learning and work for the students, faculty, and staff of the University. The Libraries actively embrace the Rutgers vision of “beloved community” defined by a commitment to work together to embody, reflect, and respect the complexities and differences of all our parts. The Libraries serve all institutions that make up Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey: Rutgers University–New Brunswick, Rutgers University–Newark, Rutgers University–Camden, and Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences. The Libraries have a highly valued staff of about 300, who are committed to innovation in access services, information literacy, and digital initiatives. Rutgers University Libraries operate with a budget of $45 million and have outstanding collections, especially in jazz and New Jerseyana. Collectively, the Libraries’ holdings include more than 4.8 million volumes. The Libraries hold memberships in ARL, BTAA, CNI, CRL, Lyrasis, NERL, PALCI, ValeNJ, SPARC (and COAPI), and use ExLibris, Alma, Primo and OCLC.

ABOUT THE ARCHIBALD S. ALEXANDER LIBRARY

The Archibald S. Alexander Library, located on the College Avenue campus of Rutgers University–New Brunswick, was erected in 1956 and is the oldest and largest of the Rutgers University Libraries. It supports doctoral programs in anthropology, economics, geography, history, linguistics, literature, philosophy, political science, and sociology; four professional schools and their doctoral programs; major interdisciplinary programs in African studies, Latin American studies, medieval studies, and South Asian studies; and undergraduate study across the humanities and social sciences. It is a federal depository library and has an especially strong collection in government publications. It is home to Special Collections and University Archives, the Digital Humanities Lab, and the East Asian Library. For more information, visit libraries.rutgers.edu/alexander.