+++
title = "Data Services Specialist"
employer = "Princeton University"
employerurl = "https://princeton.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://puwebp.princeton.edu/AcadHire/apply/application.xhtml?listingId=24021"
postdate = "2022-01-04"
archivedate = "2022-04-10"
draft = "false"
+++
Princeton University Library seeks a dynamic service-oriented library professional to serve as a Data Services Specialist in the Data and Statistical Services (DSS) unit at Firestone Library. DSS plays a critical role in academic research and instruction, supporting the independent research of Princeton juniors and seniors, as well as research conducted by faculty and graduate research. 

Princeton University Library is one of the world's leading research libraries. It employs a dedicated and knowledgeable staff of more than 300 professional and support staff working in a large central library, 9 specialized branches, and 3 storage facilities. The Library supports a diverse community of 5,200 undergraduates, 2,700 graduate students, 1,200 faculty members, and many visiting scholars. Further information is at http://library.princeton.edu/ 

**The successful candidate will:**

- Provide direct support with statistical methods and software to a diverse community of highly motivated researchers - undergraduates, graduate students and faculty - in an inclusive and welcoming environment;
- Support researchers engaged in quantitative data analysis in a variety of academic disciplines, primarily in the social sciences, particularly economics, finance, politics, public policy, and sociology;
- Help support quantitative research by sharing innovative methods and approaches;
- Assist in the choice, application, and interpretation of quantitative research methods, and with the use of statistical software needed to implement these methods;
- Manage a team of up to six doctoral students who provide one-on-one research consultations, handling scheduling, mentoring and general supervision.
- Engage in individual consultation and group instruction;
- Keep up to date with new methods, software, and approaches;
- Maintain efficient operation of the Data and Statistical Services (DSS) Lab;
- Retrieve and manipulate complex data from a variety of sources, transferring data between platforms for use in multiple computing environments;
- Create documentation and maintain the DSS unit’s web presence;
- And process data and create metadata for files in the DSS unit’s data archive.

For more detail on Data and Statistical Services, see https://dss.princeton.edu/.

**Required Qualifications:**

- Master’s degree in a social science such as economics, finance, politics, public policy, sociology or related fields
- Experience using STATA and helping others to do the same. 
- Research methods background with focus on quantitative data analysis and computing.

**Preferred Qualifications:**

- Experience with the R programming language and helping others to do the same.
- Advanced degree in a quantitative-focused social science discipline such as economics, political science, or sociology or equivalent experience.  
- Demonstrated ability and experience functioning successfully in a fast-paced environment with a strong service orientation.  
- Experience using complex machine-readable data or programming ability. 
- Strong econometrics background 
- Familiarity with social sciences, economic and/or financial data.  
- Expertise with other statistical and programming packages, particularly Python, SAS, SPSS, and MATLAB.

The successful candidate will be appointed to an appropriate Professional Specialist rank depending upon qualifications and experience. Applications will be accepted only from the Jobs at Princeton website and must include a resume, cover letter, and a list of three references with full contact information. This position is subject to the University's background check policy.

Princeton University Library is committed to recruiting a diverse workforce and advancing the University's commitment to racial equity within our community and in the world. We encourage candidates from all diverse backgrounds and life experiences to apply for our positions. To find out more about PUL’s work towards greater inclusivity, equity, and diversity, please see PUL’s “About” page.

Princeton University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to age, race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law. EEO IS THE LAW