+++
title = "Research Data Scientist"
employer = "University of Virginia"
employerurl = "https://www.uva.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://uva.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/UVAJobs/job/Charlottesville-VA/Research-Data-Scientist--School-of-Law_R0035054"
postdate = "2022-04-18"
archivedate = "2022-07-01"
draft = "false"
+++
The Legal Data Lab in the Arthur J. Morris Law Library at the University of Virginia School of Law seeks qualified applicants for the position of Research Data Scientist.  The University of Virginia School of Law is consistently recognized as one of the top law schools in the country, and the Law Library is critical to its mission and culture.  The Arthur J. Morris Law Library supports the Law School’s mission of excellence in teaching, research, and publication.

The Legal Data Lab serves the ever-evolving empirical research needs of the Law School community and provides support across the entire lifecycle of empirical projects. The Lab is currently looking for a professional with expertise in the collection, cleaning, and organization of datasets (e.g., web scraping, data manipulation, etc.). This is a new position reporting to the Head of the Legal Data Lab. One of the Library’s highest priorities is to help students learn effective research skills, and to that end, the librarians have developed an ambitious instructional program that supports both in-class and individual point-of-need learning. As a vital member of the Lab, the Research Data Scientist will have a direct impact on strategy and planning for the Lab.

The Research Data Scientist will assist faculty and other library patrons with complex research initiatives requiring the collection, cleaning, and digital dissemination of legal and other data. Depending on experience, other duties may include assistance with statistical analyses and/or machine learning and natural language processing.

**Responsibilities:**

- Extract, clean, and organize data from print and web-based sources for members of the Law School community.
- Advise and collaborate with faculty and other Law School community members on empirical legal research projects.
- Supervise one or more research assistants and/or collaborate with Law Library staff to advance research projects.
- Advise scholars concerning new research tools and methods for making the empirical research process more efficient and effective.
- Participate in the planning and direction of the Legal Data Lab.
- Participate in the statistical and/or data science communities of the University of Virginia and the surrounding community.
- Perform other duties as assigned.

The environment at the Law School is both active and supportive, with a strong sense of collegiality among students, faculty, and staff and a commitment to excellence and service.