+++
title = "Senior Software Engineer - Platform Engineering - (Hybrid/Remote)"
employer = "ICPSR"
employerurl = "https://icpsr.umich.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.umich.edu/job_detail/225887/senior-software-engineer-platform-engineering-hybridremote"
postdate = "2022-10-05"
archivedate = "2022-11-28"
draft = "false"
+++

**Senior Software Engineer - Platform Engineering - (Hybrid/Remote)**


Job Opening ID: 225887

Working Title: Senior Software Engineer - Platform Engineering - (Hybrid/Remote)

Job Title: App Programmer/Analyst Sr

Work Location: Ann Arbor Campus, Ann Arbor, MI

Full/Part Time: Full-Time

Regular/Temporary: Regular

FLSA Status: Exempt

Organizational Group: Inst Soc Research

Department: ICPSR

Posting Begin/End Date:
11/16/2022 - 1/10/2023

Salary: $100,000.00 - $115,000.00

Career Interest: Information Technology

**Summary**

The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR), based at the University of Michigan, is the world’s premier political and social science data archive. We are building a next-generation platform for delivering digital social science artifacts to a global research community on a cloud-native platform, and we need a Senior Software Engineer who specializes in Platform Engineering to join our team.

You will work with a small, diverse team committed to delivering high-quality products through modern development practices. If you desire to operate in a startup environment but have your nights and weekends as your own, ICPSR could be your organization. If you love building secure platform tools with automated tests in an Agile environment, we want to talk to you!

You will report to a Computing & Networking Services development manager.

**Responsibilities**

- Develop secure code in an Agile environment and write automated test cases for the code you write.
- Work with DevOps in platform tool evaluation, implementation, and GitOps-based deployments.
- Analyze requirements, design software modules, and document design specifications.
- Provide technical consulting, assist the technical lead in making architectural decisions, perform code reviews, coach junior team members.
- Work with the team in an Agile environment by participating in daily stand-ups, sprint planning, and estimation meetings.
- Other tasks as assigned.

**Required Qualifications**

- Bachelor's degree in Computer Science or a related field, or a combination of education and equivalent experience
- 4 or more years of of relevant experience.
- Expertise implementing internal platform tools in Java or Python for tasks such as CI/CD automation, logging, monitoring, dashboards, resource provisioning, configuration management, infrastructure-as-code etc.
- Significant experience with containerization using Docker and Kubernetes.
- Experience with AWS, or similar cloud services.
- Experience with test automation using tools such as JUnit, Mockito, Postman, k6, etc.

**Desired Qualifications**

- Experience with secure programming in Java in Spring Boot.

**Work Locations**

This position allows flexible scheduling and a remote, hybrid, or fully on-site work environment.

**Underfill Statement**

This will be filled at the senior level salary range of $100,000-115,000. Candidates with lesser experience are encouraged to apply and may be considered if the primary goal is not met. Lesser-experienced candidates will be reviewed at the intermediate level salary range of $80,000-95,000.

**Additional Information**

The Institute for Social Research (ISR) at the University of Michigan seeks to recruit and retain a diverse workforce as a reflection of our commitment to serve the diverse people of Michigan, to maintain the excellence of the university, and to ground our research in varied disciplines, perspectives, and ways of knowing and learning. For more about ISR’s commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, please [click here](https://isr.umich.edu/about/diversity/).

**Benefits at the University of Michigan**

In addition to a career filled with purpose and opportunity, the University of Michigan offers an excellent [benefits package](https://hr.umich.edu/benefits-wellness) to help you stay well, protect yourself and any eligible family members, and plan for a secure future.

**Additional Aspects of the Appointment**

We have a devops team with an on-call rotation that handles most real time issues.  However, this job may require occasional work outside normal working hours to analyze and correct critical problems that arise in ICPSR's 24/7 operational environment.

**Application Deadline**

Institute for Social Research job openings are posted for a minimum of fourteen (14) calendar days. This opening may be removed from posting boards and filled any time after the minimum posting period has ended.

**U-M EEO/AA Statement**

The University of Michigan is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.

**Job Location**

Ann Arbor, MI
