+++
title = "Ph.D. Researcher - OSIRIS - Open Science to Increase Reproducibility in Science"
employer = "Leuven University"
employerurl = "https://www.kuleuven.be"
moreinfourl = "https://www.kuleuven.be/personeel/jobsite/jobs/60167283?hl=en&lang=en"
postdate = "2022-11-17"
archivedate = "2022-12-22"
draft = "false"
+++

**Ph.D. Researcher - OSIRIS - Open Science to Increase Reproducibility in Science**

KU Leuven university (Belgium) invites applications for a 4-year PhD position within Horizon Europe project OSIRIS - Open Science to Increase Reproducibility in Science. This large-scale international project aims to investigate and deliver guidance about evidence-based interventions to improve the reproducibility of scientific findings, with particular attention for Open Science research practices. The PhD position is based at the Methods, Individual & Cultural Differences, Affect & Social Behavior (MICAS) research unit within the Faculty of Psychology and Educational Sciences; and in collaboration with the KU Leuven Research Coordination Office.

Research will focus on investigating the drivers, barriers and facilitators for reproducibility of research, using systematic scoping review, in-depth semi-structured interviews with researchers at various European universities, and focus group discussions with stakeholder groups. The candidate will also be able to engage in all phases and activities of the project, thereby gaining new skills and expertise, and collaborate with other OSIRIS PhD researchers located across Europe. 

OSIRIS (Open Science to Increase Reproducibility in Science) is a large-scale interdisciplinary and international project that aims to deliver and disseminate guidance about evidence based interventions that will improve the reproducibility of scientific findings. In the project, knowledge on the underlying drivers of reproducibility is systematically gathered, evidence-based solutions are tested, and incentives for reproducibility by stakeholders are identified. Particular attention is given to Open Science research practices that are encouraged by European research policy. You will be able to engage in all phases and activities of the project, thereby gaining new skills and expertise, and collaborate with the other OSIRIS PhD students located across Europe. You also have a dedicated work package of your own: investigating the drivers, barriers, and facilitators for reproducibility of research. The method of data collection in this work package will be threefold: a systematic scoping review, in-depth semi-structured interviews with researchers in different European universities, and focus group discussions with different stakeholder groups, including early career researchers, publishers of scientific journals and books, funders of scientific research, and research institutions.

The appointment as a PhD researcher implies three main tasks:1. You are following a doctoral trajectory: conducting scientific research on the domain of Open Science and reproducibility, following the doctoral programme at the Doctoral School for the Humanities and Social Sciences, and obtaining a PhD diploma.2. You conduct scientific research in the context of the OSIRIS project; you report and disseminate the results of your research in congress poster presentations, oral communications at symposia, and publications in international peer-reviewed scientific journals.3. You support university education, among other things by coaching students who are working on their master's thesis and by evaluating exams.In addition you will also contribute with OSIRIS colleagues towards the deliverables of the OSIRIS project.

**Job Location**

Leuven, Belgium
