+++
title = "Assistant Professor, Digital Humanities Information Specialist"
employer = "Purdue University"
employerurl = "https://www.purdue.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.purdue.edu"
postdate = "2022-12-05"
archivedate = "2022-12-22"
draft = "false"
+++

**Assistant Professor, Digital Humanities Information Specialist**

The Purdue Libraries seek an Assistant Professor who will join a vibrant group of faculty in the
Purdue University Libraries and School of Information Studies to teach and apply innovative
digital methods to humanistic research questions. The faculty member will teach courses that
contribute to the Libraries’ co-sponsored graduate and undergraduate certificates in Digital
Humanities; support and partner with faculty and students on DH research and teaching
projects; and collaborate with University units and centers to leverage campus resources to
apply toward digital projects. We are particularly interested in candidates who have interest or
experience in one or more of the following areas: the social and ethical implications of digital
technologies; multilingual text-analysis; machine learning/artificial intelligence within DH; game
studies/game making; critical digital humanities.

**Successful candidate will:**

- Develop and teach courses, workshops and embedded instruction, as appropriate, that
incorporates active-learning methods and information and data literacy concepts;
- Create instructional materials, online educational objects, and/or lesson plans to help
advance Libraries instructional programs, including dedicated certificate programs in
DH;
- Provide individual consultations with faculty and students on digital humanities projects.
- Identify and implement emerging technologies and tools relevant to supporting digital
scholarship in the humanities;
- Maintain a strong commitment to diversity and promoting and sustaining a multicultural
environment for learning;
- Lead and/or collaborate on sponsored research;
- Meet the criteria for promotion and tenure [https://www.purdue.edu/provost/faculty/promotion/index.html](https://www.purdue.edu/provost/faculty/promotion/index.html), including teaching
and librarianship, research and scholarship, engagement, and service in Library and
University governance. Faculty are also expected to engage actively in mentoring,
advising, and supporting the academic success of undergraduate and graduate students.

**About Purdue Libraries**

Purdue University Libraries and School of Information Studies [https://www.lib.purdue.edu/](https://www.lib.purdue.edu/), the
recipient of the 2015 Award for Excellence in University Libraries from the Association of
College and Research Libraries (ACRL), is at the forefront of academic librarianship, redefining
the role of the academic research library in learning, discovery, and engagement activities of
Purdue University. Libraries faculty and staff are deeply involved in information literacy
instruction and instructional design, development of new learning and lab spaces, scholarly
communication, data management, and global outreach. Libraries faculty have expanded their
collaborative endeavors with faculty across the university in integrating information literacy
into the core curriculum.

**Qualifications:**

- Requires a terminal degree in library/information science (a master’s from an ALA-
accredited or equivalent school) or a terminal degree in a relevant field (typically a
doctorate);
- Ability to deliver effective information literacy and digital humanities instruction;
- Demonstrated experience with digital humanities tools and techniques;
- Excellent oral and written communication skills;
- Interest or experience fostering a diverse, welcoming, and inclusive educational
environment;
- Capacity to develop and implement a robust research program;
- Ability to prioritize and adjust to a dynamic environment.

**Preferred Qualifications:**

- Interest or experience working with computational text analysis in R or Python

**Salary and Benefits**

The minimum salary for this position is $71,000.

Faculty tenure-track position with an Academic Year (AY) appointment. Rank of assistant
professor.

Start-up funds in support of research are provided for computer/software/equipment, for
travel/professional development, and for a half time graduate assistant for two years.

Purdue provides a generous fringe benefit package that includes retirement benefits as well as
health, disability and life insurance, and tuition support for employee, children, and spouse.

Purdue provides dual career assistance and relocation services.

Purdue University Libraries and School of Information Studies is committed to advancing
diversity in all areas of faculty effort, including discovery, instruction, and engagement.
Candidates should address at least one of these areas in their cover letter, indicating their
experiences, current interests or activities, and/or future goals to promote a climate that values
diversity and inclusion.

Purdue University’s Libraries and School of Information Studies is committed to free and open
inquiry in all matters. Candidates are encouraged to address in their cover letter how they are
prepared to contribute to a climate that values free inquiry and academic freedom.

**Job Location**

West Lafayette, IN
