+++
title = "Earth and Environmental Sciences Research Facilitator"
employer = "University of California, Santa Barbara"
employerurl = "https://www.ucsb.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://recruit.ap.ucsb.edu/JPF02322"
postdate = "2022-12-09"
archivedate = "2022-12-22"
draft = "false"
+++

**Earth and Environmental Sciences Research Facilitator**

The University of California, Santa Barbara Library invites applications for the Earth and Environmental Sciences (EES) Research Facilitator position.  The selected candidate will join the Research Data Services team and actively engage in consultations, research projects, instruction, and academic services. 

The new hire can expect to work closely with researchers from a number of departments, including Environmental Studies, the Bren School of Environmental Science & Management, Marine Science, Geography, and Ecology, Evolution, and Marine Biology.  This is an excellent opportunity for someone who is passionate about digital data and computational methods, with solid data management and curation skills, to help advance reproducible research and scientific workflows on the UCSB campus and in the EES field at large.

**Position description**

The University of California, Santa Barbara is one of ten campuses that comprise the University of California system and is a member of the Association of American Universities. In addition, the University Library at UC Santa Barbara is a member of the Association of Research Libraries.

The Library is especially interested in candidates who can contribute to the diversity and excellence of the academic community through research, teaching, and service.

The UC Santa Barbara Library is responding to recent and exciting changes in scholarship that include the increasing use of digital data and computational methods; expanding and novel cross-disciplinary data reuse; new emphases on transparency and reproducibility; concern for preservation and long-term usability; and the rise of new forms of scholarly communication including data publication and open access publishing. The UC Santa Barbara Library seeks a collaborative, dynamic scholar to foster excellence in data curation.

Reporting to the Director of Research Data Services, the Earth and Environmental Sciences Research Facilitator is responsible for the planning and implementation of scholarly initiatives in support of data-intensive research and digital scholarship in the Earth and environmental sciences on campus with the goal of ensuring the high functionality, discoverability, and preservability of digital research data throughout its lifecycle. As part of a growing team of research facilitators, at UCSB and across the University of California, the candidate will make substantial contributions to his/her primary area of responsibility as well as collaborate with other team members in addressing curation of data from other disciplines.

The successful candidate will join a team that is re-envisioning the Library’s role within the research data lifecycle and who can respond to and support new research methods being used by researchers as well as lead the adoption of new methods. Research Data Services is also actively engaged with using, and informing development of, the digital asset platforms that are increasingly a core component of the toolset of the modern research university. In collaboration with data curators, science subject librarians, and the staff of the Data, Research, Exploration, Access, Methods (DREAM) Lab, the Earth and Environmental Sciences Research Facilitator will create and implement the Library’s support plan for researchers in the Earth and Environmental Sciences.

**RESPONSIBILITIES:**

Provide data management consultations to campus data creators in support of the research mission of the university.

In coordination with the DREAM Lab, organize public events and lead trainings and workshops in the areas of: tool use; data analysis, publication, management, and curation; and data literacy.

Contribute to curriculum development and instruction as part of the Bren School of Environmental Science & Management/NCEAS Masters in Environmental Data Science.

Provide consultation on the use of high-performance computing platforms, disciplinary and institutional data repositories, persistent identification systems, scholarly communication tools, and other data-related resources available to UCSB researchers.

Build and contribute expertise in information trends and research methods in the Earth and environmental sciences and related disciplines.

Be embedded into or otherwise participate in campus research projects.

Outreach to faculty and assist with adoption of new data management and curation tools and services in support of faculty research within data science.

Build and maintain online data management aids and other documentation.

The Earth and Environmental Sciences Research Facilitator can expect to work with researchers from UCSB’s award-winning Environmental Studies, Bren School of Environmental Science & Management, Marine Science, Geography, and Ecology, Evolution, and Marine Biology departments among others. They will contribute to local, regional, and national discussions and initiatives in data management and digital scholarship. Additionally, as a member of the greater University of California scholarly community, the candidate will participate in systemwide working groups and efforts, and work with the University of California Curation Center (UC3) at the California Digital Library to help develop and promulgate new systemwide services.

**SALARY AND BENEFITS:**

Salary commensurate with experience and qualifications. Salary information can be found at [https://ap.ucsb.edu/compensation.and.benefits/ucsb.salary.scales/24B.pdf](https://ap.ucsb.edu/compensation.and.benefits/ucsb.salary.scales/24B.pdf).

Appointees to the Specialist series at the University of California, Santa Barbara are professional academic employees who accrue vacation at the rate of two days per month and sick leave at the rate of one day per month. The University has excellent retirement plans and a selection of group health, dental, vision, and life insurance plans. Benefits information can be found at [https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/compensation-and-benefits/index.html](https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/compensation-and-benefits/index.html).

Appointees to the Specialist series are represented by the United Auto Workers 5810.

Department: [https://www.library.ucsb.edu/](https://www.library.ucsb.edu/)

**Qualifications**

**Basic qualifications** (required at time of application)

- At the time of application, a MSc in an Earth or environmental science discipline, in information science, or in another relevant discipline; and
- At least 2 years’ experience managing, analyzing, and otherwise working with Earth and/or environmental science data.

**Preferred qualifications**

- At the time of application, a PhD in an Earth or environmental science discipline, in information science, or in another relevant discipline;
- Demonstrated working knowledge of issues and technical challenges related to data curation, including preservation, metadata, discovery, provenance, and data access (including open access);
- Familiarity with data repositories, computational platforms, and data description and publication processes used within the Earth and environmental sciences;
- Familiarity with remote sensing processes, including: processing levels; file formats such as HDF and NetCDF; and data access protocols such as OPeNDAP and WCS;
- Familiarity with relevant standards for research metadata used for geospatial data and in remote sensing such as ISO 19115, NASA DIF, and CF conventions, and with standards used in the ecological and life science communities such as EML and Darwin Core;
- Familiarity with one or more platforms or tools used by Earth and environmental researchers, such as Python, R, MATLAB, or ENVI/IDL;
- Experience with data analysis and publication environments such as Jupyter and RStudio;
- Experience organizing public events and leading trainings and workshops;
- Familiarity with grant writing and data management requirements of federal agencies;
- Working knowledge of intellectual property issues (including Creative Commons licensing);
- Experience working in a university or library environment;
- Ability to work independently and collaboratively;
- Excellent organizational skills, proven problem solving ability, and flexibility;
- Excellent oral, written, and interpersonal communication skills; and
- Demonstrated commitment to achieving equity, diversity, and inclusion in the workplace and the community.

**Campus Information**

The University of California is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law.

As a condition of employment, you will be required to comply with the University of California SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) Vaccination Program Policy: [https://policy.ucop.edu/doc/5000695/SARS-CoV-2_Covid-19](https://policy.ucop.edu/doc/5000695/SARS-CoV-2_Covid-19). All Covered Individuals under the policy must provide proof of Full Vaccination or, if applicable, submit a request for Exception (based on Medical Exemption, Disability, and/or Religious Objection) or Deferral (based on pregnancy) no later than the applicable deadline. Please refer to Appendix F, Section II.C. of the policy for the deadlines applicable to new University of California employees. (Capitalized terms in this paragraph are defined in the policy.) Federal, state, or local public health directives may impose additional requirements.

**Job Location**

Santa Barbara, CA
