+++
title = "Social and Cultural Studies Librarian"
employer = "University of California-Berkeley"
employerurl = "https://lib.berkeley.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://aprecruit.berkeley.edu/JPF03644"
postdate = "2022-09-26"
archivedate = "2022-11-10"
draft = "false"
+++

**Social and Cultural Studies Librarian**

This is to let you know of our open position, Social and Cultural Studies Librarian at the University of California, Berkeley-- as appropriate, please spread the word widely to your networks!  The position focuses on African Studies, Anthropology and Linguistics, but has a broadly interdisciplinary focus, and the Social Sciences Division is a collegial group with wide ranging interests and background. 

The University of California, Berkeley Library seeks a collaborative, creative and engaged librarian to join a team supporting world-class research and teaching in the social sciences; providing innovative collection development and other user-focused services including data and information literacy, course-based instruction, and research support.

The Social and Cultural Studies Librarian reports to the head of the Library’s Social Sciences Division. Librarians in the Social Sciences Division establish strong relationships with faculty and students; conduct analysis and assessment of user needs; create collections of digital, print, and data resources; provide virtual and in-person research consultations; offer course-related instruction; develop instructional materials in a variety of formats; and promote library resources and services to support Berkeley’s teaching and research.

The Social and Cultural Studies Librarian serves as the liaison for African studies – providing collections and research support for a diverse group of students and faculty in the social sciences, humanities, and sciences who have a geographic focus on Sub-Saharan Africa. In addition, the librarian serves as liaison to the Anthropology and Linguistics Departments. Research in these areas at UC Berkeley is highly interdisciplinary, but is united by a critical focus on intersectionality, post-colonialism and heritage studies.

The Social and Cultural Studies Librarian will actively participate in local, regional, national and international efforts to develop collections utilizing critical and post-colonial collection practices in order to preserve and make accessible collections with approaches which are informed by stakeholder and descendent communities.

**Position overview**

Position title: Associate Librarian, Career Status or Potential Career Status

Salary range: $66,878-$85,001

Percent time: 100%

Anticipated start: January 1, 2023

Position duration: This is a career position, indefinite end date.

The University of California, Berkeley Library seeks a collaborative, creative and engaged librarian to join a team supporting world-class research and teaching in the social sciences; providing innovative collection development and other user-focused services including data and information literacy, course-based instruction, and research support.

**The Environment**

The UC Berkeley Library is an internationally renowned teaching and research facility at one of the nation's premier public universities. A highly diverse and intellectually rich environment, Berkeley serves a campus community of 30,000 undergraduate students, over 11,000 graduate students, and 1,500 faculty. With a collection of more than 13 million volumes and a collections budget of over $15 million, the Library offers extensive collections in all formats and robust services to connect users with those collections and build their related research skills.

The Library’s Social Sciences Division (SSD) is comprised of librarians, library career staff, and student library employees who together support the teaching and research needs of students and faculty in twelve social science departments within the College of Letters & Science, six professional schools, three International and Area Studies programs, and an array of Organized Research Units.

**Responsibilities**

The Social and Cultural Studies Librarian reports to the head of the Library’s Social Sciences Division. Librarians in the Social Sciences Division establish strong relationships with faculty and students; conduct analysis and assessment of user needs; create collections of digital, print, and data resources; provide virtual and in-person research consultations; offer course-related instruction; develop instructional materials in a variety of formats; and promote library resources and services to support Berkeley’s teaching and research.

The Social and Cultural Studies Librarian serves as the liaison for African studies – providing collections and research support for a diverse group of students and faculty in the social sciences, humanities, and sciences who have a geographic focus on Sub-Saharan Africa. In addition, the librarian serves as liaison to the Anthropology and Linguistics Departments. Research in these areas at UC Berkeley is highly interdisciplinary, but is united by a critical focus on intersectionality, post-colonialism and heritage studies.

The Social and Cultural Studies Librarian will actively participate in local, regional, national and international efforts to develop collections utilizing critical and post-colonial collection practices in order to preserve and make accessible collections with approaches which are informed by stakeholder and descendent communities.

The incumbent will work closely with other subject librarians, and collaborate with librarians with language expertise as well as specialists for archival resources, assessment, data, digital scholarship, and scholarly communications. Depending on the needs of the Library and the interests of the librarian, the position may represent the division through a leadership role in one of the above functional areas.

UC Berkeley librarians and academic staff participate in library-wide planning and governance, and work effectively in a shared decision-making environment. Advancement is partially based upon professional contributions beyond the primary assignment; the successful candidate will show evidence or promise of such contributions to the Library, campus, UC System, and profession.

The UC Berkeley Library is committed to supporting and encouraging a multicultural environment and seeks candidates who can make positive and imaginative contributions in a context of ethnic and cultural diversity.

UC professional librarians are academic appointees and are represented by an exclusive bargaining agent, the University Council – American Federation of Teachers (UC-AFT). This position is covered by the collective bargaining agreement of the AFT.

Librarians are entitled to appropriate professional development leave, vacation leave, sick leave, and all other benefits granted to non-faculty academic personnel. The University has an excellent retirement system and sponsors a variety of group health, dental, vision, and life insurance plans in addition to other benefits.

**Qualifications**

**Basic qualifications** (required at time of application)

- Advanced degree (completed by start of appointment)

**Preferred qualifications**

- Master’s degree from an ALA-accredited institution or equivalent international degree.
- Experience providing reference and/or instructional services in a library.
- Demonstrated commitment to equity, diversity, and inclusion.
- Familiarity with social science research methods.
- Demonstrated written communication skills.
- Demonstrated presentation skills.
- Experience with, or course work in, collection development.

**Application Requirements** 

Document requirements

- Curriculum Vitae - Your most recently updated C.V.

- Cover Letter

- Statement on Contributions to Advancing Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion - Statement on your contributions to diversity, equity, and inclusion, including information about your understanding of these topics, your record of activities to date, and your specific plans and goals for advancing equity and inclusion if hired at Berkeley (for additional information go to https://ofew.berkeley.edu/recruitment/contributions-diversity).

Reference requirements

-  3 required (contact information only)

Apply link: [https://aprecruit.berkeley.edu/JPF03644](https://aprecruit.berkeley.edu/JPF03644)

**Campus Information**

Diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging are core values at UC Berkeley. Our excellence can only be fully realized by faculty, students, and academic and non-academic staff who share our commitment to these values. Successful candidates for our academic positions will demonstrate evidence of a commitment to advancing equity, inclusion, and belonging.

The University of California, Berkeley is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, or protected veteran status. For the complete University of California nondiscrimination and affirmative action policy see: [http://policy.ucop.edu/doc/4000376/NondiscrimAffirmAct](http://policy.ucop.edu/doc/4000376/NondiscrimAffirmAct)

In searches when letters of reference are required all letters will be treated as confidential per University of California policy and California state law. Please refer potential referees, including when letters are provided via a third party (i.e., dossier service or career center), to the UC Berkeley statement of confidentiality ([http://apo.berkeley.edu/ucb-confidentiality-policy](http://apo.berkeley.edu/ucb-confidentiality-policy)) prior to submitting their letter.

As a condition of employment, you will be required to comply with the University of California SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) Vaccination Program Policy. All Covered Individuals under the policy must provide proof of Full Vaccination or, if applicable, submit a request for Exception (based on Medical Exemption, Disability, and/or Religious Objection) or Deferral (based on pregnancy) no later than the applicable deadline. Please refer to Appendix F, Section II.C. of the policy for the deadlines applicable to new University of California employees. (Capitalized terms in this paragraph are defined in the policy.) Federal, state, or local public health directives may impose additional requirements.

Positions that are represented by a collective bargaining unit or agent have particular contracts. For more information, please refer to the relevant contract: [Lecturer contract](https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/labor/bargaining-units/ix/index.html), [Postdoctoral contract](https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/labor/bargaining-units/px/index.html), [Research Series contract](https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/labor/bargaining-units/ra/index.html), and [Librarian contract](https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/labor/bargaining-units/lx/index.html). Questions about represented positions can be directed to the hiring unit.

**Job location**
Berkeley, CA

