+++
title = "Data Curator and GIS Librarian"
employer = "Washington University in St. Louis"
employerurl = "https://www.wustl.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://wustl.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/External/job/Librarian-Specialist---University-Libraries_JR69309"
postdate = "2022-11-18"
archivedate = "2022-12-21"
draft = "false"
+++

**Data Curator and GIS Librarian**

locations	Washington University Danforth Campus

time type	Full time

job requisition id	JR69309

Scheduled Hours	37.5

**Position Summary**
Reporting to the Head of Data Services, the Data Curator and GIS Librarian serves as a specialist for research data management and data curation, and Libraries liaison for GIS and spatial data. In collaboration with the Data Services team, this position is responsible for instructional programming, collection development, data management, outreach, and research assistance for faculty and student needs with GIS tools and spatial data. The incumbent provides research support services, educational outreach and consultations for GIS, research data management, and data curation to the University community in collaboration with Data Services colleagues and other relevant units in the University Libraries.

**Job Description**

**Primary Duties & Responsibilities**

- Collaborate with subject area librarians on strategies and services for instruction, collection management, research consultations, and scholarly services related to data and GIS. Develop and implement programmatic services for instruction, collection management, outreach, individualized consultations, and research support to faculty, students and staff across disciplines utilizing data, geospatial data, and related resources.
- Work closely with relevant library programs and services on digital collection development, policies, and protocols related to datasets, data management, repository services, and other relevant initiatives to make research data and resulting scholarly outputs discoverable and accessible to students, faculty and staff.
- Collaborate closely with relevant library staff throughout the University Libraries on GIS, data management, data curation policies, digital repository services, and faculty workflow practices.
- Engage in ongoing training and professional development activities to facilitate skill building and keep current on relevant topics in research data management, data curation, and GIS. Engage and contribute to library committees.
- Perform other duties as assigned.


**Preferred Qualifications**

- Advanced degree or coursework in GIS, informatics, or other relevant research-oriented discipline.
- Knowledge or experience in data for social sciences or life sciences.
- Experience in delivery of research data services.
- Familiarity experience with data delivery services, discoverability solutions, and meeting federal grant requirements for data accessibility.
- Advanced knowledge of GIS software, related computational tools, and management of spatial data.
- Demonstrated familiarity with computational approaches and research software used in the social sciences, such as R, SPSS, SAS, Stata, and/or Excel.
- Familiarity with database design or digital repository structure and development.
- Experience with relevant metadata standards and schemas for describing digital objects and research data, geospatial metadata, or Dublin Core.
- Experience with development and implementation of data management services.
- Demonstrated ability to identify and vet resources and tools for data sharing, data analysis, and archiving. 
- Excellent communication skills (oral and written.
- Strong organizational skills.
- Ability to manage multiple projects at once, to set priorities, and meet deadlines.
- Demonstrated ability to work in a team environment.
- Ability to provide instruction and consultation on complex topics in data management and GIS to faculty, students and library staff.
- Demonstrated capability as a self-starter and ability to work independently. 
- Ability to work and thrive within a rapidly changing professional environment. 

**Required Qualifications**

- ALA Accredited MLS/MLIS or other subject MA (or higher degree) within one or more of the assigned subject disciplines.
- Demonstrated project management experience.
- Demonstrated experience with the execution of sound data management practices, including organization, documentation, and preservation of research data.
- Knowledge of trends, issues, tools, and data curation  and GIS.
- Demonstrated experience with GIS software and use of spatial data.
- Experience in working with users (e.g., faculty, staff, and students) in reference and research consultations. 

**Grade**

G12

**Salary Range**

$55,600.00 - $94,900.00 / Annually

The salary range reflects base salaries paid for positions in a given job grade across the University. Individual rates within the range will be determined by factors including one's qualifications and performance, equity with others in the department, market rates for positions within the same grade and department budget.


**Benefits Statement**
Washington University in St. Louis is committed to providing a comprehensive and competitive benefits package to our employees. Benefits eligibility is subject to employment status, full-time equivalent (FTE) workload, and weekly standard hours. Please visit our website at [https://hr.wustl.edu/benefits/](https://hr.wustl.edu/benefits/)  to view a summary of benefits.

**EEO/AA Statement**
Washington University in St. Louis is committed to the principles and practices of equal employment opportunity and especially encourages applications by those from underrepresented groups. It is the University’s policy to provide equal opportunity and access to persons in all job titles without regard to race, ethnicity, color, national origin, age, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, disability, protected veteran status, or genetic information.

**Diversity Statement**
Washington University is dedicated to building a diverse community of individuals who are committed to contributing to an inclusive environment – fostering respect for all and welcoming individuals from diverse backgrounds, experiences and perspectives. Individuals with a commitment to these values are encouraged to apply.

**Job Location**

St. Louis, MO
