+++
title = "Data Services Librarian"
employer = "Carleton University"
employerurl = "https://library.carleton.ca/"
moreinfourl = "https://partnershipjobs.ca/jobs/30407"
postdate = "2022-09-27"
archivedate = "2022-11-10"
draft = "false"
+++

**Data Services Librarian**

Field of Specialization: Library Technology Services

Academic Unit: Maxwell MacOdrum Library

Category of Appointment: Term Appointment

Rank/Position Title: Data Services Librarian

Start Date: December 1, 2022

Closing Date: October 22, 2022

The Data Services Librarian is a member of the Research Support Services, reporting to the Department Head, Research Support Services, and participates as a team member within one of the Subject Teams within the Department. The incumbent is responsible for participating in the delivery of data services in the library to support teaching, learning and research activities at Carleton University. The incumbent is responsible for providing general reference and instruction for Data, which includes collection development and reference specialization. The incumbent develops, manages, and delivers library services related to data services and research data management, and works closely with the data services group.

This position works collaboratively with colleagues within the unit and across the Library to provide coordinated support for research and data services and coordinates the efforts regarding support for undergraduate and graduate services and programming.

The Data Services Librarian is a member of the CUASA bargaining unit.

To see the full position posting, please visit Carleton University’s [Deputy Provost’s website](http://carleton.ca/deputyprovost/jobs) at [https://carleton.ca/deputyprovost/jobs/academics/](https://carleton.ca/deputyprovost/jobs/academics/).

**About the Academic Unit:**

The MacOdrum Library [https://library.carleton.ca/)](https://library.carleton.ca/) promotes excellence at Carleton University by collecting, preserving, and providing access to information resources and services for our teaching, learning, research, and administrative communities, wherever they are located.

The Library consists of a main building at the heart of the campus which holds over 3.7 million items and an on-campus storage facility with a capacity of 800,000 volumes. There are 103 FTE positions in the Library including about 31 Librarians, 68 Professional Services Staff, and about 50 casual student positions. The Library participates in co-operative ventures with area libraries and museums as well as libraries in research institutions across Canada. It is also part of the Ontario Consortium of University Libraries and the Canadian Research Knowledge Network.

**Qualifications:**

Applicants must have a Master’s degree in Library and Information Science from an accredited library school is required.

A minimum of 3 years’ experience with techniques and technologies for engaging with data. Academic library or research center experience preferred, with emphasis on public service. The complete position description is available below.

**Application Instructions**

Candidates must include a cover letter (expression of interest) and current curriculum vitae. In addition, short-listed candidates will be asked to provide letters of support from three references.

Provide a statement that identifies your strengths in advancing equity, diversity, and inclusion in your discipline and on campus as well as your future plans.

Please indicate in your application if you are currently legally eligible to work in Canada.

**About Carleton University**

Located in Ottawa, Carleton is an innovative teaching and research institution with a tradition of leading change. Internationally recognized academics, staff, and researchers engage more than 31,000 students in over 100 programs of study. Carleton has long been known for promoting research excellence and connectedness and is involved in partnerships around the globe. With strong leadership, it enjoys a healthy financial position and our proximity to government and cultural institutions, media, and a thriving knowledge economy make Carleton and Ottawa a great place to work, learn, and live. Our picturesque campus is fully accessible and, along with award-winning student services, Carleton’s Paul Menton Centre for Students with Disabilities has been heralded as the gold standard for disability support services in Canada. Learn more about [our university and the city of Ottawa](https://carleton.ca/deputyprovost/jobs/).

Carleton University is committed to fostering diversity within its community as a source of excellence, cultural enrichment, and social strength. We welcome those who would contribute to the further diversification of our university including, but not limited to: women; visible minorities; First Nations, Inuit and Métis peoples; persons with disabilities; and persons of any sexual orientation, gender identity and/or expression. Furthermore, Carleton understands that career paths vary and interruptions will not prejudice the assessment process. We invite you to review our revitalized Indigenous strategy, [Kinàmàgawin](https://carleton.ca/indigenousinitiatives/cu-files/kinamagawin/) and visit our [Department of Equity and Inclusive Communities](https://carleton.ca/equity/) for information about our commitment to leadership in the areas of equity, diversity, and inclusion.

Accessibility is a university strategic priority and applicants selected for an interview who require accommodations are invited to contact the Chair as soon as possible to ensure that appropriate arrangements may be made.

*All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadians and permanent residents will be given priority. All positions are subject to budgetary approval.*


**Compensation**

$73,599 - $116,883 

**Job location**
Ottawa, ON

