+++
title = "Research Impact & Research Information Management (RIM) Librarian"
employer = "University of Minnesota"
employerurl = "https://www.umn.edu"
moreinfourl = "http://z.umn.edu/ulib437"
postdate = "2022-04-27"
archivedate = "2022-07-01"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Minnesota Libraries is hiring a Research Impact & Research Information Management (RIM) Librarian. 

**Responsibilities:**

- Provides vision and direction for the Libraries' research information management and research impact services.
- Provides consultation services to researchers on the use of research metrics, including guidance around the responsible use of metrics, disciplinary differences in publishing and metrics, and the use of various bibliometric and altmetric resources, and the use of researcher identification and profiling tools.
- Prioritizes, evaluates, negotiates and manages requests for research information and bibliometric data and support.
- Designs, develops and maintains effective content and training related to research information management and research impact.
- Prepares standard and customized reports, visualizations and presentations for faculty, departments and research centers.
- Extracts and analyzes research-related data in support of strategic requests from Libraries leadership.
- Works closely with vendors and campus colleagues to solve technical issues.
- Develops and maintains an awareness of the trends and issues in university level rankings and research impact, and advocates for the responsible use of metrics.
- Serves as the Libraries' liaison to local and national RIM community, including but not limited to the North American Pure User Group and EFS Forum.

This is a full-time, 12-month, continuous-track appointment, academic professional position with probationary appointment at the Assistant or Associate Librarian level. The minimum salary is $57,500, and we have good benefits and a moving allowance.

For the position description and information on how to apply, please use the following link: http://z.umn.edu/ulib437 and enter 347562 in the "Search Jobs" box.