+++
title = "Financial & Economic Data Analysis Librarian"
employer = "New York University"
employerurl = "https://www.nyu.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://t.co/KsGFhaCB5M"
postdate = "2022-01-18"
archivedate = "2022-04-10"
draft = "false"
+++
NYU Libraries is hiring a Financial & Economic Data Analysis Librarian. This is a tenure track faculty position that will work closely with the NYU Stern School of Business and the Economics Department of the College of Arts and Sciences. 

**Description**

New York University Libraries is seeking a librarian to support the needs of data-intensive financial and economic researchers at New York University (NYU).

The Financial & Economic Data Analysis Librarian guides faculty, students, and staff with data analysis software; statistical and qualitative data analysis techniques; and data collection, management, and visualization. This position conceptualizes, develops, deploys, and assesses frontline data support services tailored to members of the Stern School of Business and the broader business, economics, and entrepreneurship research community at NYU. The successful candidate may serve as the primary subject liaison to one or more departments at NYU, depending upon background and interest.

The Financial & Economic Data Analysis Librarian position is a tenure-track position that reports to the Head of the Library’s Business, Economics, and Entrepreneurship department. This individual will collaborate closely with peers inside the Division of Libraries and across related units within the greater University. Collaboration, instruction, and data support services will incorporate critical analyses of data that unveil and respond to deep-seated social inequalities, and will be informed by Division-wide commitments to diversity and inclusion and anti-racism.

The Financial & Economic Data Analysis Librarian will participate in library-wide committees, activities, and special projects, especially those involving data. The successful candidate will maintain awareness of data-focused initiatives across business as a discipline, engage in professional development, and develop a personal research itinerary that includes scholarly output for tenure.

**Research**

Faculty Librarians set their own active research agenda, contributing their expertise, experiences, and investigations to build new knowledge in an environment that values academic freedom. The Financial & Economic Data Analysis Librarian will be well positioned to make substantive contributions to research in any number of areas. Examples of areas of focus could include, but are in no way limited to: data literacy and the acquisition of data-analysis skills; critical analysis of the use and misuse of data in contemporary society; the role of the librarian in supporting analysis to understand policy, economic, or business-based questions and problems; the impact of data collection practices or the gaps in available data on underrepresented populations; the role of data in public-policy planning, particularly in urban contexts; etc.

**NYU Cluster Hiring Initiative**

NYU Libraries is participating in the NYU Faculty Cluster Hiring Initiative to recruit, welcome, and support new library faculty working across the Division on timely themes of social importance, such as Inequality and Anti-racism, Population Health and Health Equity, Open Science and the Public Good, and Urban Environments and Politics. NYU Libraries will use the cluster-hire approach to address our goal of building a more diverse faculty community in a concerted way, with the full weight of the University’s recruitment and retention toolkit. It also allows us to mobilize our internal resources, including onboarding, cohort mentoring, and measures to protect time for research and service, and bring them to bear to ensure the success of new hires. For full details about the Libraries cluster hiring initiative, see this link.

This particular position is part of our Politics of Space: Data, the City, and Structures of Inequality cluster. Cities are a register of deep-seated social inequality, often understood through quantitative data analysis and data visualization. NYU Libraries’ Politics of Space cluster looks outward and imagines expanded capacity for urban economics and education disciplines, moored by holistic support for data analysis and visualization across the disciplines at NYU. This cluster hire anticipates a burgeoning need for information and research technology expertise for those in urban studies-adjacent disciplines at NYU, including sociology of education, educational leadership, and entrepreneurship and innovation.

**About NYU Libraries**

The Division of Libraries values diversity among its faculty, is committed to building a culturally diverse intellectual community, and strongly encourages applications from members of underrepresented communities. We are proud of our organizational culture and are committed to building and sustaining a diverse, inclusive, and equitable organization that supports a sense of belonging for the staff and communities we serve. For more information regarding the Libraries’ commitment to IDBE, see the Libraries’ Mission & Values Statement, our Diversity and Inclusion Values Statement, and our Commitment to Anti-Racism.

Salary/Benefits: Faculty status, attractive benefits package including five weeks annual vacation. Salary commensurate with experience and background. Faculty at NYU, including in the Division of Libraries, have always enjoyed relative flexibility in their work, allowing for moments of remote work as appropriate.

**Qualifications**

- Minimum 1 graduate degree (master’s level or higher) for consideration. A second graduate degree will be required for tenure review. One of the two graduate degrees must be an ALA-accredited MLS or equivalent.
- Experience in quantitative data analysis, use of datasets, or in supporting researchers engaged in quantitative data work; familiarity with common software tools used to conduct this type of research.
- Excellent verbal, written, interpersonal, and intercultural communication skills.
- Strong analytical, quantitative, problem-solving, and critical-thinking skills, especially in a research context.
- Demonstrated commitment to inclusion, diversity, equity, belonging, and accessibility within teaching and learning.
- Ability to work independently and collaboratively in a service-oriented environment.


**Preferred**

- Experience providing data-focused teaching, training, and research support in an academic, corporate, or other context.
- Fluency with one or more common tools used by researchers to work with business, financial, and economic data, e.g. Excel, SAS, R, STATA, Python, etc.
- Familiarity with major financial data products, including but not limited to: WRDS (CRSP, IBES, TAQ), Bloomberg, Refinitiv Workspace/Eikon, CapitalIQ, Datastream, FactSet, etc.
- Graduate or undergraduate degree in a relevant quantitative field e.g. finance, economics, data science, or related quantitative experience.
- Demonstrated understanding of current and emerging trends in the scholarship of business and finance.

**Application Instructions**

We would love to hear from you! To ensure consideration, submit your CV and letter of application, including the contact information of three professional references. 

NYU Division of Libraries requires all candidates for this position to supply a statement demonstrating their dedication to inclusion, diversity, equity, and belonging as part of their application. Access the Diversity Statement prompt here https://nyu.box.com/v/diversity-statement. Applications will be considered until the position is filled. Preference will be given to applications received by February 21.

**Equal Employment Opportunity Statement**

For people in the EU, click here for information on your privacy rights under GDPR: www.nyu.edu/it/gdpr

NYU is an Equal Opportunity Employer and is committed to a policy of equal treatment and opportunity in every aspect of its recruitment and hiring process without regard to age, alienage, caregiver status, childbirth, citizenship status, color, creed, disability, domestic violence victim status, ethnicity, familial status, gender and/or gender identity or expression, marital status, military status, national origin, parental status, partnership status, predisposing genetic characteristics, pregnancy, race, religion, reproductive health decision making, sex, sexual orientation, unemployment status, veteran status, or any other legally protected basis. Women, racial and ethnic minorities, persons of minority sexual orientation or gender identity, individuals with disabilities, and veterans are encouraged to apply for vacant positions at all levels.

**Sustainability Statement**

NYU aims to be among the greenest urban campuses in the country and carbon neutral by 2040. Learn more at nyu.edu/sustainabilit