+++
title = "Social Sciences Librarian"
employer = "University of Richmond"
employerurl = "https://www.richmond.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://richmond.csod.com/ats/careersite/JobDetails.aspx?site=1&id=2702"
postdate = "2022-09-06"
archivedate = "2022-09-07"
draft = "false"
+++
Working within the School of Arts & Sciences, the Social Sciences Librarian develops innovative research, teaching, and learning approaches. The Social Sciences Librarian provides instruction and research support for anthropology, sociology, psychology, and education; and leads initiatives to support First-Year student success, including developing tutorials and assessments for instruction. The Social Sciences Librarian collaborates with faculty from across the liaison areas to select, manage, and create a diverse collection that reflects the current needs of the curriculum as well as anticipating future areas for growth.

Professional librarians hold faculty status. Faculty status allows both voice and vote in University faculty meetings, eligibility to serve on faculty committees, to serve as a student advisor, and it acknowledges that those individuals play an active role in the intellectual activities of the University. Faculty status does not carry with it eligibility for tenure or sabbatical, nor does it automatically carry with it faculty rank (Professor, Associate, Assistant Professor, or Instructor), since faculty rank is in a specific academic department, nor does it carry eligibility for other benefits normally assigned to full-time teaching faculty.

**RESPONSIBILITIES:**

- Uses innovative pedagogical best practices, instruction technologies, and energetic teaching and presentation skills to develop instructional resources for library instruction and offer research and consultation appointments to students and faculty in liaison areas and other campus and community members as required. 
- Creates and maintains research guides, online tutorials, and web content to support assigned disciplinary areas. Leads activities in support of FY Student Success initiatives. 
- Develops and maintains print and electronic library collections to support research and teaching in assigned liaison areas, through collaboration with colleagues. 
- Collaborates with library staff and faculty/staff across campus to identify current and emerging scholarly projects, areas of inquiry, and pedagogical trends to implement high-impact practices into instruction and research support. 
- Serves on communities/committees that support the libraries’ mission and academic interests. 

**QUALIFICATIONS:**

REQUIRED:

- Demonstrated understanding of research processes in the social sciences.
- Demonstrated ability to teach disciplinary database searching skills to an audience with a diverse skillset.
- Demonstrated ability to work collaboratively and creatively to promote teamwork, diversity, equity, and inclusiveness.
- Demonstrated ability to establish and maintain effective relationships and interactions with faculty, students, and staff in a diverse community.
- Demonstrated ability to support faculty with diverse research and teaching interests.
- Demonstrated commitment to fostering a diverse and inclusive environment emphasizing anti-racist praxis.
- Demonstrated ability to be flexible, open-minded, and effective in a dynamic, rapidly changing environment.
- Demonstrated ability to plan and manage work assignments independently, and consistently create and meet deadlines.

PREFERRED:

- Awareness of high-impact practices and innovative pedagogy related to first-year students.
- Awareness of current and innovative pedagogical practices for critical literacies, multi-literacies, writing pedagogy, instruction, and teaching for transfer.
- Knowledge of current trends in scholarly publishing practices in social science disciplines.
- Knowledge of library technologies and emergent technologies related to library public service.
- Experience with creating web-based instruction content, tutorials, and Library Research Guides.
- We want to emphasize that the preferred qualifications are not all required and that we are committed to helping our future colleagues develop these preferred skills. We strongly encourage those who are passionate about supporting our mission to apply, including those from historically underrepresented groups or who have followed less traditional paths to librarianship.

**EDUCATION & EXPERIENCE:**

Required:

- MLS, MIS, or MLIS from an ALA-accredited program or equivalent international degree.
- At least one year of instruction/teaching experience

Desired:

- Coursework in the social sciences or experience supporting social-sciences research methodologies.
- Experience and/or interest in assessment and instructional design.

**WORK HOURS:**

- Full-time, exempt position
- Monday – Friday, 8:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.; 7.75 hrs./day; 38.75 hrs./week; require evening and weekend instruction/reference coverage as needed throughout the school year

**SALARY STRUCTURE:**

Pay Grade 7 (Hiring Range $52,829.00 to $69,999.00 annually)

COVID-19:

The University of Richmond requires COVID-19 vaccinations for all students, faculty, and staff. The University allows exemptions to this requirement for religious, medical and strong personal conviction reasons. All newly hired employees must report their status within the first two weeks of employment.

**ABOUT UR:**

At the University of Richmond, we’re creative, inclusive, and determined. We’re Spiders, and our mission is to create positive change in the UR community and beyond. Located minutes from downtown Richmond, Virginia, the University of Richmond (www.richmond.edu) blends the intimacy of a small college with exceptional academic, research, and cultural opportunities usually found only at large institutions. There’s only one place like Richmond.

UR is committed to developing a diverse faculty, staff and student body, and to modeling an inclusive campus community which values the expression of differences in ways that promote excellence in teaching, learning, personal development and institutional success. In keeping with this commitment, our academic community welcomes candidates from diverse backgrounds and candidates who support diversity. EOE 