+++
title = "Research Information Services Manager"
employer = "Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis"
employerurl = "https://www.minneapolisfed.org/"
moreinfourl = "https://rb.wd5.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/FRS/details/Research-Information-Services-Manager---Research-Division_R-0000007743-1?locations=fd925bdfc7240138625c114524014608"
postdate = "2022-03-23"
archivedate = "2022-06-01"
draft = "false"
+++
The Research Division of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis is hiring a Technology and Analytic Manager in their Research and Information Services (RIS) area.

**Responsibilities:**

Directs and coordinates the activities of Research Information Services, which encompass data and textual resource procurement and management, publications support, metadata management, archives, web management, and reference and research assistance, ensuring optimal day-to-day and long-term operational objectives are met.

Supports official staff in the effective and efficient administration of the Division, which includes:

- Resource planning and alignment

- Formulation and administration of department budgets

- Relationship management with vendors and partners across the Bank and Federal Reserve System

- Coordination of research and identification of opportunities for process improvements, emerging technologies, and business trends to leverage within the business

- Development and tracking of strategic objectives

Oversees key Division, Bank, and System projects. Acts as project leader and/or facilitates team efforts on highly complex System and local projects. Communicates and collaborates across System resources and department functions to resolve complex business and/or technical issues. Provides high level expertise on project management, business, and technological issues.

Leads compliance with System and local policies, coordinates work assignments and implementation efforts, leads change and process improvement efforts.

Manages a staff of 4 that includes project manager and software developer roles. Develops, motivates, and evaluates performance of staff, which includes managing staff to identify developmental assignments and training opportunities, working with individuals on their career goals, delegating responsibilities, providing timely feedback, and evaluating performance. Plays a key role in the full cycle of employment matters.