+++
title = "Senior Data Engineer"
employer = "ICPSR"
employerurl = "https://icpsr.umich.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.umich.edu/job_detail/220911/senior-data-engineer"
postdate = "2022-10-05"
archivedate = "2022-11-28"
draft = "false"
+++

**Senior Data Engineer**


Job Opening ID: 220911

Working Title: Senior Data Engineer

Job Title: App Programmer/Analyst Sr

Work Location: Ann Arbor Campus, Ann Arbor, MI

Full/Part Time: Full-Time

Regular/Temporary: Regular

FLSA Status: Exempt

Organizational Group: Inst Soc Research

Department: ICPSR

Posting Begin/End Date:
11/16/2022 - 1/10/2023

Salary: $95,000.00 - $115,000.00

Career Interest: Information Technology

**Summary**

The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research ([ICPSR](https://www.icpsr.umich.edu)) is embarking on a 5 year project to build a cloud-native platform for delivering digital social science artifacts to a global research community, and we need a Data Engineer to join our team. We focus on delivering value quickly in an Agile environment that fosters creativity, exploration, and learning. As a member of our team, you will help implement a microservices-based architecture using technologies such as Apache Airflow, RedHat OpenShift, NoSQL databases, and AWS services. You will be supported by a small, diverse team committed to delivering high-quality products and an exceptional user experience through modern development and delivery practices. If you love creating secure, scalable, resilient data pipelines within a test-driven development framework, and can coach others in best practices, we want to talk to you!

You will report to the Data Engineering Lead.

**Responsibilities**

 - Author production-quality ETL workflows running in a distributed, containerized, cloud-native environment to support ingestion, transformation, and dissemination of complex social science research data and metadata from a variety of data sources.
 - Apply best practices in software development and data management to improve curation workflows in our secure data environment by building a library of reusable scripts and tools orchestrated by automated data pipelines.
 - Develop secure, scalable, and resilient APIs to expose data as a service to upstream producers and downstream consumers.
 - Support development teams in all aspects of data management, from the conceptual modeling stage through to the application of data governance policies.
 - Implement monitoring solutions for data engineering products and provide operational support to pipelines and APIs in production.
 - Research and identify open source and COTS tools to solve challenging problems while minimizing the need for custom code.
 - Mentor curation staff on data engineering best practices.

**Required Qualifications**

 - Bachelor's degree in computer science, a related field, or equivalent experience.
 - Five or more years’ experience using Python for data engineering projects.
 - Five or more years’ experience with relational database management using SQL.
 - Three or more years’ experience in building production-quality data pipelines using a modern ETL, data integration, or data orchestration framework.
 - Three or more years’ experience building interfaces with heterogeneous data sources and sinks including REST APIs.
 - Three or more years’ experience with Linux and shell scripting.

**Desired Qualifications**

 - Knowledge of data management fundamentals such as data modeling and governance.
 - Experience managing data pipelines in production using monitoring tools such as Prometheus or Grafana and log indexers such as Elasticsearch or Splunk.
 - Knowledge of NoSQL databases, in particular graph databases or triple stores.
 - Understanding of distributed microservices architectures and their orchestration using tools like Kubernetes.
 - Experience with cloud storage and computing (AWS experience preferred).

**Work Locations**

We have returned to in-person work at our offices in Ann Arbor, MI, but we support hybrid work schedules. Part of this job may require some work outside normal working hours to analyze and correct critical problems that arise in ICPSR's 24 hours per day operational environment.

**Underfill Statement**

The requirements listed reflect a senior-level expectation with an attendant salary range of $95,000 - $115,000. Candidates with lesser experience are encouraged to apply and may be considered if the primary goal is not met. Lesser-experienced candidates will be reviewed at the intermediate level, which requires at least 3 years of experience with a salary range of $80,000 - 95,000.

**Additional Information**

The Institute for Social Research at the University of Michigan wants to employ a diverse workforce as a reflection of our commitment to serve the diverse people of Michigan, to maintain the excellence of the university, and to ground our research in varied disciplines, perspectives, and ways of knowing and learning.

**Benefits at the University of Michigan**

In addition to a career filled with purpose and opportunity, The University of Michigan offers a comprehensive benefits package to help you stay well, protect yourself and your family and plan for a secure future. Benefits include:

 - Generous time off
 - A retirement plan that provides two-for-one matching contributions with immediate vesting
 - Many choices for comprehensive health insurance
 - Vision, dental, and life insurance
 - Long-term disability coverage
 - Flexible spending accounts for healthcare and dependent care expenses
 - Tuition reimbursement
 
[Learn More About U-M Benefits](https://hr.umich.edu/benefits-wellness)


**Application Deadline**

Institute for Social Research job openings are posted for a minimum of fourteen (14) calendar days. This opening may be removed from posting boards and filled any time after the minimum posting period has ended.

**U-M EEO/AA Statement**

The University of Michigan is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.

**Job Location**

Ann Arbor, MI
