+++
title = "Political Science Librarian, Assistant University Librarian"
employer = "University of Florida"
employerurl = "https://www.ufl.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://hr.uflib.ufl.edu/prospective-employees/current-openings/vacant-faculty-positions/"
postdate = "2022-07-05"
archivedate = "2022-07-15"
draft = "false"
+++
The University of Florida's George A. Smathers Libraries seek a candidate who will support the research and academic programs of the Department of Political Science as well as interdisciplinary programs supported by the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. The Political Science Librarian is a year-round (12 month), tenure track library faculty position.  Responsibilities include analyzing the University’s programs in political science, managing collections to support political science research and teaching, and collaborating with other faculty and staff to provide support in the broader area of the social sciences. This position provides specialized subject area reference services, research consultations, and library instruction.

The Smathers Libraries are committed to creating a thoughtful, equitable, and inclusive culture that provides space for innovation and creativity. We support that commitment by offering a fulfilling work experience that allows for collaboration, growth, and development as well as shared perspectives.

To support all colleagues, students, faculty, and staff and foster excellence in a diverse and collaborative society, the libraries are actively seeking candidates who bring culturally rich lived experiences to work with individuals of diverse backgrounds, experiences, races, ethnicities, genders, sexual orientations, and perspectives.

The library encourages broad participation in reaching decisions and consequently the Political Science Librarian will contribute to discussions and provide input, and serve on various committees and teams.

The Political Science Librarian will pursue professional development opportunities, including research, publication, and professional service activities to meet library-wide criteria for tenure and promotion.

The search will remain open until July 18, 2022, and applications will be reviewed as received. For a full description of the position and instructions on how to apply, please refer to the George A. Smathers Libraries faculty recruitment webpage. 

The University of Florida is an equal opportunity employer and is strongly committed to the diversity of our faculty and staff. Applicants from a broad spectrum of people, including members of ethnic minorities and disabled persons, are especially encouraged to apply.