+++
title = "Acquisitions and Collections Librarian"
employer = "Seton Hall University"
employerurl = "https://www.shu.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://jobs.shu.edu/en-us/job/495121/acquisitions-and-collections-librarian"
postdate = "2022-04-19"
archivedate = "2022-07-01"
draft = "false"
+++
Acquisitions and Collections Librarian
: Full time/Part time: Full-time
: Location: South Orange
: Categories: Faculty

The successful candidate will oversee and manage all aspects of the full life cycle of print and electronic library resources and collaborate with the Assistant Dean for Information Technologies and Collections Services, library faculty and staff, to ensure electronic and physical collections are accurately represented on the shelves and in integrated library systems. The successful candidate will supervise and mentor a team of three staff members. This is a tenure track position; an additional graduate degree, scholarship, and service are required for consideration for tenure.

**Duties and Responsibilities:**

- Fiscal Planning: Ensure the effective and appropriate use of funds in a materials budget over $2 million. Create and maintain budget strategies for the general collection, new gifts and resources, integration of ILL and acquisition workflows, and shifting funds to meet changing collection needs.
- Acquisitions: Supervise daily operations for firm and standing order acquisitions in print and electronic formats. Serve as primary liaison with vendors regarding the potential purchase and renewal of electronic resources. Ensure invoices submitted for payment in a timely manner. Track expenditures, vendor payments, encumbrances, and status of orders.
- License Management: Negotiate and formalize resource licensing agreements that include favorable pricing and licensing terms. Work with the electronic resources librarian to manage and maintain smooth access to electronic resources. Monitor service contracts and license agreements.
- Collection Development: Lead the analysis and development of the physical and electronic collections. Guide the University Libraries’ Collection Development Committee. Oversee an efficient and effective selection and processing of materials in all formats. Work collegially with the access services librarian and other library faculty, staff, donors, consortia, publishers, and vendors.
- Cataloging/metadata: Oversee the full range of cataloging functions. Develop and implement efficient workflows for maintenance of bibliographic, holdings, and item records. Manage workflow for original and difficult cataloging records with subject matter experts.

**Required Qualifications:**

- MLS or equivalent from an ALA Accredited institution.
- Minimum 1-3 years’ experience in an academic library or 1-3 years’ experience working with library finances.
- Commitment to advancing diversity and inclusion in our workplace and in the systems, services, and collections we build.
- Demonstrated skills: Strong negotiation skills. Meticulous, organized, ability to coordinate and manage multiple projects simultaneously and work effectively under deadlines.
- Strong people skills. Ability to build relationships, lead teams and committees and embrace change and foster innovation. Excellent communication skills (listening, speaking and writing).
- Ability to produce accurate statistics and reports.
- Commitment to supporting the Mission of the University and servant leadership (the servant-leader shares power, puts the needs of others first and helps people develop and perform as highly as possible).

**Desired Qualifications:**

- Knowledge of accounting principles as relates to academic libraries.
- Previous experience working with electronic resource management systems such as OCLC WorldShare Management system.
- Supervisory experience preferred.
- Experience negotiating contracts and electronic resource licenses, including a basic understanding of licensing and copyright issues.
- Knowledge of monographic and electronic acquisitions and serials processing, including management of resource records, vendor tracking, licensing terms and other account and subscription information.
- A basic knowledge of cataloging; understanding of MARC, Dublin Core.
- The position as described is neither comprehensive nor exhaustive. University Libraries is aware that additional knowledge, skills, and abilities may meet the needs of the position, and we encourage all prospective applicants who meet the basic requirements to apply. We strongly encourage diverse applicants, including, but not limited to race, gender identity, sexual orientation, disability, national origin, or veteran status.

Salary Grade: FA01 - Faculty