+++
title = "Summer Internships"
employer = "Federal Reserve Board of Governors Research Library"
employerurl = "https://www.federalreserve.gov/"
moreinfourl = "https://frbog.taleo.net/careersection/1/jobdetail.ftl?lang=en&job=23338"
postdate = "2022-10-14"
archivedate = "2022-11-28"
draft = "false"
+++

**Summer Internships**

 The Federal Reserve Board of Governors Research Library (RL) is offering two paid summer internships for graduate-level library or information science students to advance several projects that will improve library services to the Board research and professional community.  We offer a full array of desktop and customized library services to staff members at the Board and assist in data intensive and web-dependent Board research.

To enhance discovery and use of the Board’s valuable resources and research, projects will have a particular focus on data- and metadata-related efforts. Interns will be matched to several of the following projects that represent a variety of the library’s responsibilities based on skills, interests, and priorities of the library and Division.

**Data Catalog and Library Catalog Enrichment**

Assist with cataloging of data assets in line with national, international, and Board standards and practices, potentially including stakeholder interviews. Work may include subject analysis, metadata normalization, and researching and populating content. Aid in cleanup of metadata to allow for reuse of the library’s content throughout the Board. Analysis of content to link data assets to research in OneBoard Research, the Board’s research repository. Assist with data migration and quality checks among systems. 

**Subscription Management Software Migration**

Support the migration of pertinent data license terms, cost, and user lists from multiple legacy platforms to a new integrated subscription management software solution. Post-migration, the interns will continue to quality check migration accuracy and potentially assist in the build of custom Tableau dashboards based on the specifications of librarians, division data officers, and budget analysts.

**Scholarly Research and Communications**

Enhance and maintain metadata for DOIs through Crossref. Support efforts to improve the Board Economist Citation Reports (BECRs), including revision of current indices and possibly deployment of altmetrics. Continue to promote and further streamline the use of researcher IDs, including possible automated integration with ORCID. 

**Metadata & Taxonomy Standardization and Enhancement**

For taxonomy, review scope notes to standardize formats; employ taxonomy and authority control to support interoperability; process and analyze data catalog and library catalog search logs for controlled subject vocabulary term enrichment. 

**Research**

Research and report out on several topics that support our library’s strategic plan (e.g., scholarly communications, research data, and broader library issues). 

**Marketing**

Assist Marketing Team with implementing new library marketing plan and campaigns. 

**Improvements to Technologies and Processes Related to Library’s Strategic Plan**

Examples of work include: aid in roll-out of new library website and discovery layer; development of improved Bank and Broker Newsletter functionality; work with Infrastructure Team to modernize documentation.

**Position Requirements**

- Enrolled in a Master’s degree program in library or information science at an ALA-accredited institution (MLS), graduating summer 2023 or later.
- Knowledge and interest in library technology
- A minimum of 15-20 credits in foundational library science coursework completed by the start of the internship.
- Must have attention to detail, initiative, and good communication skills.
- Should have a basic understanding of metadata
- Python and coding skills are a plus, but not required, as we can train qualified interns.

**Note**

- US Citizenship is required
- This internship can be conducted either on-site in Washington, D.C, completely virtually, or hybrid.
- Full vaccination for COVID-19 is required as a condition of employment, unless a legally required exception applies.
-  We are an Equal Opportunity Employer and do not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, genetic information, or application, membership, or service in the uniformed services.

Full vaccination for COVID-19 is required as a condition of employment, unless a legally required exception applies.

We are an Equal Opportunity Employer and do not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, genetic information, or application, membership, or service in the uniformed services.


Primary Location: DC-Washington

Employee Status: Temporary

Overtime Status: Non-exempt

Job Type: Internship

Travel: No

Shift: Day Job

Years of Experience Required: 0

Education Required: Some Graduate School

Relocation Provided: No

Salary Grade Low: 22

Salary Grade High: 22

Minimum Salary: $60,500

Maximum Salary: $95,000

**Job Location**

Washington, DC
