+++
title = "Senior Full-Stack Software Engineer (Hybrid/Remote)"
employer = "ICPSR"
employerurl = "https://icpsr.umich.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.umich.edu/job_detail/226686/senior-full-stack-software-engineer-hybridremote"
postdate = "2022-10-05"
archivedate = "2022-11-28"
draft = "false"
+++

**Senior Full-Stack Software Engineer (Hybrid/Remote)**


Job Opening ID: 226686

Working Title: Senior Full-Stack Software Engineer (Hybrid/Remote)

Job Title: App Programmer/Analyst Sr

Work Location: Ann Arbor Campus, Ann Arbor, MI

Full/Part Time: Full-Time

Regular/Temporary: Regular

FLSA Status: Exempt

Organizational Group: Inst Soc Research

Department: ICPSR - Computing and Network

Posting Begin/End Date:
11/14/2022 - 1/12/2023

Salary: $80,000.00 - $115,000.00

Career Interest: Information Technology

**Summary**

The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research ([ICPSR](https://www.icpsr.umich.edu)), based at the University of Michigan, is the world’s premier political and social science data archive.  We are building a next-generation platform for delivering digital social science artifacts to a global research community on a cloud-native platform, and we need a Senior Full-Stack Software Engineer who specializes in Java and JavaScript to join our team. 

You will work with a small, diverse team committed to delivering high-quality products through modern development practices. If you desire to operate in a startup environment but have your nights and weekends as your own, ICPSR could be your organization. If you love creating secure code with automated tests in an Agile environment, we want to talk to you!

You will report to a Computing & Networking Services development manager. 

**Why Work at Michigan?**

In addition to a career filled with purpose and opportunity, the University of Michigan offers an excellent [benefits package](https://hr.umich.edu/benefits-wellness) to help you stay well, protect yourself and any eligible family members, and plan for a secure future.

**Responsibilities**

- Develop secure code in an Agile framework.
- Write automated test cases for the code you write.
- Analyze requirements, design software modules, and document design specifications.
- Provide technical consulting, assist the technical lead in making architectural decisions, perform code reviews, coach junior team members.
- Work with the team in an Agile environment by participating in daily stand-ups, sprint planning, and estimation meetings.
- Other tasks as assigned.

Additional Aspects of the Appointment  

We have a separate devops team with an on-call rotation that handles most real time issues.  However, this job may require occasional work outside normal working hours to analyze and correct critical problems that arise in ICPSR's 24/7 operational environment.

**Required Qualifications**

- Bachelor's degree in Computer Science or a related field, or a combination of education and equivalent experience.
- 4 or more years of relevant experience.
- Expertise in either Java or JavaScript environment as a full-stack software engineer and significant experience in the other:	
  - Back-end development secure applications with Java, Spring framework or Spring Boot.
  - Front-end web development with JavaScript, including React, NextJS, NodeJS, or similar.

- Experience with SQL, ORM technologies such as Hibernate or JPA, and relational databases such as Oracle or Postgres.
- Experience with test automation using tools such as JUnit or Jest.

**Desired Qualifications**

- Experience with AWS, or similar cloud services 

**Work Locations**

This position allows flexible scheduling and a remote, hybrid, or fully on-site work environment.

**Underfill Statement**

This will be filled at the senior level salary range of $100,000-115,000. Candidates with lesser experience are encouraged to apply and may be considered if the primary goal is not met. Lesser-experienced candidates will be reviewed at the intermediate level salary range of $80,000-95,000.

**Additional Information**

The Institute for Social Research (ISR) at the University of Michigan seeks to recruit and retain a diverse workforce as a reflection of our commitment to serve the diverse people of Michigan, to maintain the excellence of the university, and to ground our research in varied disciplines, perspectives, and ways of knowing and learning. For more about ISR’s commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, please [click here](https://isr.umich.edu/about/diversity/).

**Benefits at the University of Michigan**

In addition to a career filled with purpose and opportunity, the University of Michigan offers an excellent [benefits package](https://hr.umich.edu/benefits-wellness) to help you stay well, protect yourself and any eligible family members, and plan for a secure future.

**Additional Aspects of the Appointment**

We have a devops team with an on-call rotation that handles most real time issues.  However, this job may require occasional work outside normal working hours to analyze and correct critical problems that arise in ICPSR's 24/7 operational environment.

**Application Deadline**

Institute for Social Research job openings are posted for a minimum of fourteen (14) calendar days. This opening may be removed from posting boards and filled any time after the minimum posting period has ended.

**U-M EEO/AA Statement**

The University of Michigan is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.

**Job Location**

Ann Arbor, MI
