+++
title = "Data Librarian"
employer = "University of Toronto Libraries"
employerurl = "https://www.utoronto.ca"
moreinfourl = "https://ischool.utoronto.ca/job/28154-2022/"
postdate = "2022-02-15"
archivedate = "2022-04-10"
draft = "false"
+++
Organization Name: University of Toronto Libraries
Job Title: Data Librarian
Job Type: Full Time (Permanent)
Location: Toronto, Ontario, Canada
Compensation: Rank and salary will be commensurate with experience and academic/professional qualifications. We offer generous benefits packages to all employees. Additional information is available at: https://people.utoronto.ca/careers/benefits/

**Job Category**

Library – Academic

POSITION: Data Librarian
DEPARTMENT: Map and Data Library
DATE REQUIRED: Immediately

Are you looking for challenging, meaningful work in a supportive and diverse environment? Are you looking for a career at one of Canada’s top employers? Work where the world comes to think, discover and learn. Consider a career at the University of Toronto.

**About the University of Toronto Libraries**

The University of Toronto Libraries system is the largest academic library in Canada and is consistently ranked in the top ten among academic research libraries in North America. The system consists of 40 libraries located on three university campuses: St. George, Mississauga, and Scarborough. This array of college libraries, special collections, and specialized libraries and information centres supports the teaching and research requirements of over 300 graduate programs, more than 70 professional programs, and about 700 undergraduate degree programs. In addition to more than 12 million volumes in 341 languages, the library system currently provides access to millions of electronic resources in various forms and over 31,000 linear metres of archival material. More than 150,000 new print volumes are acquired each year. The Libraries’ data centre houses more than 500 servers with a storage capacity of 1.5 petabytes.

**The Opportunity**

Reporting to the Head of the Map and Data Library (MDL), the Data Librarian will engage with users across the university as part of a dynamic team that provides a growing range of data services across the full research cycle. The Data Librarian will work collegially within UTL across all three UofT campuses to develop a strategic approach to data services and research data management practices. Other responsibilities are as follows:

- Support data services in coordination with other staff and librarians in MDL and across UTL
- Provide in-depth research consultations on the creation, management, use, curation, deposit and sharing of research data
- Provide research data management leadership and support
- Provide support in other data-related areas (GIS, data visualization, etc.)
- Develop and deliver instructional sessions, material and web resources on research data management and other data-related topics
- Liaise with academic programs involved in data-intensive research and instruction
- Participate in collection development activities for datasets, tools and platforms
- Actively engage in local, national and international initiatives around research data management
- Initiate, lead and support special projects
- Investigate and explore emerging areas related to research data services

**Required Qualifications**

- A degree from an accredited Master’s level program in library and information studies
- Demonstrated commitment to the principles of inclusion, diversity, equity, anti-racism and accessibility
- Familiarity with data stewardship and research data management concepts, including the development of data management plans and the use of data repositories such as Dataverse
- Demonstrated knowledge of and experience with common research methodologies, including data analysis techniques and tools
- Demonstrated commitment to the provision of high-quality public service and instruction
- Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills
- Strong written and oral communication skills and the ability to develop clear, concise, accurate technical documentation
- Ability to work independently and effectively with technology in a fast-paced environment while managing competing priorities
- Demonstrated experience or willingness to work as part of a team
- Ability to work cooperatively and collegially in a culturally diverse and rapidly changing environment

**Preferred Qualifications**

- Knowledge and awareness of Canadian Tri-Agencies’ research data and related policies
- Experience or knowledge of the academic research process
- Experience performing data selection, acquisition, and support in an academic setting
- Proven project management skills
- Demonstrated use of Geospatial (GIS) software, concepts and data
- Demonstrated use of statistical software
- Experience using one or more programming languages such as R or Python
- Experience working with HTML, XML, JSON and other markup languages

**Salary and Terms of Appointment:**

Rank and salary will be commensurate with experience and academic/professional qualifications. This is a permanent status stream position.

Benefits: We offer generous benefits packages to all employees. Additional information is available at: https://people.utoronto.ca/careers/benefits/

**Additional information**

Librarians at the University of Toronto are members of the University of Toronto Faculty Association.

**How to Apply**

Application Materials Required: A cover letter, curriculum vitae, and contact information for three references of which at least two have supervised your work. Please send a single electronic file (MS Word or pdf) with a file name convention of [Surname,FirstName.DataMap] to Library Human Resources at utlhr@utoronto.ca; or to Room 1140, 130 St. George Street, University of Toronto Libraries, Toronto, Ontario M5S 1A5; by March 17, 2022.

All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadians and permanent residents will be given priority.

**Application Process**
Application Materials Required: A cover letter, curriculum vitae, and contact information for three references of which at least two have supervised your work. Please send a single electronic file (MS Word or pdf) with a file name convention of [Surname,FirstName.DataMap] to Library Human Resources at utlhr@utoronto.ca; or to Room 1140, 130 St. George Street, University of Toronto Libraries, Toronto, Ontario M5S 1A5; by March 17, 2022.