+++
title = "Systems Specialist, Information Products and Technical Services"
employer = "Harvard Business School"
employerurl = "https://www.hbs.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://sjobs.brassring.com/TGnewUI/Search/home/HomeWithPreLoad?partnerid=25240&siteid=5341&PageType=JobDetails&jobid=1959182"
postdate = "2022-07-22"
archivedate = "2022-08-22"
draft = "false"
+++
Are you excited about the idea of joining a world-class organization at the intersection of higher education and business? Are you drawn to organizations in the midst of digital transformation? If so, join Knowledge and Library Services (KLS) in the delivery of our mission to educate leaders who make a difference in the world in an adaptive and collaborative environment. KLS at Harvard Business School (HBS) is one of the leading academic business libraries in the world. Its innovative programs provide the expertise and resources that faculty, students, alumni, and visiting scholars depend on in order to create, share, discover, use and disseminate knowledge. Check out some of our services for the HBS Community, explore our exhibits, or just browse the library website at https://www.library.hbs.edu/.

Reporting to the Technical Lead of the Information Products and Technical Services (IPTS) department of Knowledge and Library Services (KLS) at Harvard Business School (HBS), the Systems Specialist will be part of a dynamic, hands-on team, ensuring KLS has the technology, workflows, and support to satisfy a range of information needs across HBS’s scholarly and professional community.

The Systems Specialist would join KLS and the HBS Community at the very beginning of its school-wide digital transformation towards an integrated, data-driven enterprise, centered on cloud application services (ex. AWS). Using the digital ecosystem of content, expertise, and infrastructure products and services provided by KLS staff, HBS scholars will discover, access and use the most relevant, high quality information and services they need, from wherever they are, and wherever the content may live.

KLS is committed to diversity and inclusion in its collections, workplace, services, and digital and physical spaces. We align with Harvard Business School and Harvard Library in advancing racial equity within our community. 

**Duties and Responsibilities:**

Key member of the development team focused on the maintenance, enhancement, and redesign of the library content management systems, with a focus on DevOps, including:

- Manage all of our existing applications and servers (approximately 22 servers and about 5-10 distinct services) and their migration to AWS
- Support Jira Cloud and other systems
- Consolidate our source code management systems and Implement a continuous integration/deployment.
- Support our migration to AWS.
- Participate in the team’s agile process, and communicate estimates, tasks, and status to the team and management.
- Help design and manage the tools and processes of our metadata development tools and processes, including our existing and future graph database solutions

More widely, as a member of the library staff, collaborate with the KLS technical team, vendors, library staff and HBS partners to:

- Evaluate current technology, ascertain gaps and technology needs, and develop and support specialized, core technology services for research and teaching.
- Develop and provide services supporting digital archives and digital scholarship as part of a team.
- Contribute to the ongoing identification and review of technology trends and innovative services across libraries and higher education.

This role is also responsible for other duties as assigned.

**Working Relationships:**

- Work with KLS and the KLS/IPTS Management Team to prioritize technology needs to ensure that technology investments support KLS’ strategy and annual goals.
- Work with HBS IT to plan and manage KLS IT needs
- Work with external contracted partners to support Web and CMS environment.
- Work with Harvard University IT and Harvard Library organizations as needed to support enterprise library and computing applications.

**Basic Qualifications**

- B.S. in Information Science, Computer Science or related field OR 4 to 6 years of relevant technical experience
- 5-7 years of work experience in supporting information technology and training, preferably in a library or academic environment.
- Knowledge and proven ability to work with LAMP environments, servers, and applications or commensurate experience required.
- Experience with software administration, engineering tools and processes (such as Git, Ant/Maven, Jira, AWS, Docker, etc.).
- Programming experience with some of the following languages: python, java, php, bash, javascript or equivalent 

**Additional Qualifications and Skills**

- Experience with web frameworks such as Symfony, Ibexa (formerly eZPlatform), or similar.
- Understanding of scalable text searches such as Solr/ Elastic Search, or similar.
- Understanding/experience with Resource Description Framework (RDF) technologies.
- Experience with website performance monitoring systems such as NewRelic.
- Experience managing and / or working with external technology vendors.
- Experience creating and maintaining technical documentation.
- Creative problem-solving skills, patient and curious trouble-shooter.
- Customer-service focus and a user-centric attitude.
- Proven experience excelling as both an individual contributor and as a part of a collaborative team.

Please note that candidates advancing to a second interview will be asked to complete a brief exercise during that interview.

Our expectations are that employees of HBS adhere to and represent our Community Values. They are:

- Respect for the rights, differences, and dignity of others
- Honesty and integrity in dealing with all members of the community
-  Accountability for personal behavior


**Additional Information**

This role is offered as a hybrid (some combination of onsite and remote) where you are required to be onsite at our Boston, MA based campus 2 days per week. Specific days and schedule will be determined between you and your manager.

- A cover letter is required to be considered for this opportunity.

While we continue to monitor the evolving COVID-19 guidelines and restrictions, we appreciate your understanding and flexibility with our interview process. Please note that we will be conducting interviews virtually (phone and or Zoom) for selected candidates until further notice.

The University requires all Harvard community members to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and remain up to date with COVID-19 vaccine boosters, as detailed in Harvard’s Vaccine & Booster Requirements. Individuals may claim exemption from the vaccine requirement for medical or religious reasons. More information regarding the University’s COVID vaccination requirement, exemptions, and verification of vaccination status may be found at the University’s “COVID-19 Vaccine Information” webpage: http://www.harvard.edu/coronavirus/covid-19-vaccine-information/.

Harvard Business School will not offer visa sponsorship for this opportunity.

Culture of Inclusion: The work and well-being of HBS is profoundly strengthened by the diversity of our network and our differences in background, culture, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, and life experiences. Explore more about HBS work culture here https://www.hbs.edu/employment.