+++
title = "Statistical Consultation and Learning Specialist"
employer = "Toronto Metropolitan University"
employerurl = "https://www.torontomu.ca/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.torontomu.ca/psc/hrcgprd/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/c/HRS_HRAM_FL.HRS_CG_SEARCH_FL.GBL?Page=HRS_APP_SCHJOB_FL&Action=U&"
postdate = "2022-11-09"
archivedate = "2022-12-08"
draft = "false"
+++

**Statistical Consultation and Learning Specialist - Library**

Job ID:	369799

Location: Toronto, ON

Full/Part Time: Full-Time

Regular/Temporary: Regular
 
**About Toronto Metropolitan**

At the intersection of mind and action, Toronto Metropolitan University is on a transformative path to become Canada’s leading comprehensive innovation university. Integral to this path is the placement of equity, diversity and inclusion as fundamental to our institutional culture. Our current [academic plan](https://www.ryerson.ca/provost/strategic-plans/academic-plan/) outlines each as core values and we work to embed them in all that we do.

We welcome those who have demonstrated a commitment to upholding the values of equity, diversity, and inclusion and will assist us to expand our capacity for diversity in the broadest sense. In addition, to correct the conditions of disadvantage in employment in Canada, we encourage applications from members of groups that have been historically disadvantaged and marginalized, including First Nations, Metis and Inuit peoples, Indigenous peoples of North America, racialized persons, persons with disabilities, and those who identify as women and/or 2SLGBTQ+. Please note that all qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, applications from Canadians and permanent residents will be given priority.

In April 2022, the university announced our new name of Toronto Metropolitan University, which will be implemented in a phased approach. Learn more about our [next chapter](https://www.ryerson.ca/next-chapter/).

 
**About the team**

A vibrant and innovative centre of exploration, research, creation and learning, the University Library is positioned at the core of the University’s academic, research and community engagement goals. The Library supports a diverse community of learners and instructors, researchers and scholars, and community experts and entrepreneurs, and is a hub of interdisciplinary SRC.  The dedicated team of more than 100 talented individuals supports a growing academic community, including new campuses and a growing number of international students. The University Library provides crucial academic learning, creation and research resources, programs, services and spaces. Its unique blend of expertise and programming, coupled with access to leading edge technology and an array of information resources, fosters a rich academic environment, supporting the University’s complement of degree programs, and advancing research and discovery, and community outreach and engagement.  

The Library is committed to the TRC Calls to Action and is actively exploring ways to decolonize our work and these efforts are further supported by the Mash Koh Wee Kah Pooh Win (Standing Strong Task Force) recommendations and the University’s in process renaming initiative. Our ongoing commitment to equity and community inclusion continue to shape and reaffirm our values and priorities as a Library and University.

 
**The Opportunity**

The **Statistical Consultation and Learning Specialist** will provide expert advice and education in statistical methods, techniques and tools supporting the research and learning needs of the broad range of disciplines and research foci offered at Toronto Metropolitan University (TMU). 

- Provide analytical and technical support in quantitative and qualitative research through individual consultation and facilitation of group sessions to various internal clients, including the development and delivery of workshops to support course curriculum and the development of self-directed learning materials. 
- Work closely with the Geospatial Map and Data Centre (GMDC) staff and TMU Librarians to develop data and statistical services at the University Libraries.

**Qualifications**

To help us learn more about you, please provide a cover letter and resume describing how you meet the following required qualifications:

- Successful completion of a Masters degree in Statistics or a related discipline required and a minimum of 4 years of related experience in a research or academic setting with the following requirements:	
  - Experience supporting organizational assessment, advocacy or decision-making activities through in-depth understanding of statistical theories, methods and tools.
  - Experience and in-depth understanding of budget and financial forecasting.
  - Experience with reference or researcher consultation and with experiential learning and lecture delivery.
  - Experience with research and survey design, data collection/creation, and reporting.
  - Experience conducting and/or supporting quantitative and qualitative research in an academic environment. 
  - Advanced knowledge of statistical methods & analysis. Working knowledge of statistical software.
  - Strong applied knowledge of statistical techniques such as tests of significance, regression analysis, categorical data analysis, and analysis of variance is required. 
  - Demonstrated skill in teaching statistical concepts and their application to learners at beginning through more advanced levels. Ability to break down complex concepts and to communicate clearly and effectively for a broad range of learning styles.
         
- Fluency with teaching and consultation in in-person, online, and hybrid modes that demonstrate commitment to understanding and providing outstanding academic and student experiences.
- Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills.
- Ability to interpret questions and negotiate with clients to achieve mutually desired outcomes.
- Thorough internet and database search skills; demonstrated accuracy and attention to detail.
- Ability to work independently and effectively with technology in a dynamic environment while managing competing priorities; ability to prioritize tasks.
- Strong written and oral communication; excellent presentation skills.
- Ability to develop clear, concise, accurate technical documentation.
- Strong user-focused service orientation.
- Evidence of initiative, innovation and flexibility to respond to workflow demands.
- Ability to work cooperatively and effectively with supervisors and colleagues in a culturally diverse and rapidly changing environment.
- Commitment to ongoing professional development and ability to learn.
- Strong verbal, written and presentation skills to collaborate with various stakeholders internally and externally 
- Demonstrated capability to successfully manage time and multiple competing priorities with minimal supervision and direction in a fast pace work environment; working independently and collaboratively as a member of the team.

**Additional Information**

Position Number(s)		20004497	

Reports To		Head, Library Learning Services	

Vacancy Type		FTCE	

Employee Group		OPSEU	

Work Location		Hybrid (In-peson and remote)	

Start Date		ASAP	

End Date		NA	

Hours of Work		 36.25	

Grade and Step		12	

Salary Scale		Min: $71,284.07 up toStep 8: $90,300.54

As part of the selection process, candidates may be required to complete an occupational assessment.  
Applications will only be accepted online through Toronto Metropolitan University's careersite.

Toronto Metropolitan University is committed to the principles of the Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act (AODA), and aims to ensure that independence, dignity, integration and equality of opportunity are embedded in all aspects of the university culture.
 
We will provide an accessible experience for applicants, students, employees, and members of the Toronto Metropolitan University community.We are committed to providing an inclusive and barrier-free work environment, beginning with the recruitment process. If you have restrictions that need to be accommodated to fully participate in any phase of the recruitment process, please contact hr@ryerson.ca. All information received in relation to accommodation will be kept confidential.

**Job Location**

Toronto, ON
