+++
title = "Data Project Manager/Curator"
employer = "University of Michigan, ICPSR"
employerurl = "https://umich.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.umich.edu/job_detail/217674/data-project-managercurator"
postdate = "2022-06-14"
archivedate = "2022-07-01"
draft = "false"
+++
Working Title: Data Project Manager/Curator
: Job Title: General Programmer/Analyst Sr
: Work Location: Ann Arbor Campus, Ann Arbor, MI
: Full/Part Time: Full-Time
: Regular/Temporary: Regular
: FLSA Status: Exempt
: Organizational Group: Inst Soc Research
: Department: SRC-Social Envir & Health
: Posting Begin/End Date: 5/25/2022 - 6/22/2022
: Salary: $65,000.00 - $80,000.00
: Career Interest: Information Technology

Summary

The Social Environment and Health Program (SEH) within the University of Michigan's Institute for Social Research (ISR) examines social inequalities in health, including the role of social structures, built environments, climate change, and the pathways linking neighborhood context to infectious disease inequities. Under the supervision of the Principal Investigators, the Data Project Manager/Curator will contribute to the data curation, data management, and dissemination activities of the National Neighborhood Data Archive (NaNDA), and other related projects in the SEH program. The NaNDA project is focused on creating and curating measures of the neighborhood environment. This includes updating existing measures as well as creating novel measures based on new data sources. The Data Project Manager will oversee the different activities involved in both curating existing measures as well as creating new ones. For more information, please see https://seh.isr.umich.edu/.

**Responsibilities***

Dissemination and Outreach (40%)

- Plan and participate in training sessions, webinars, and other outreach activities to promote the use of the NaNDA repository and other related datasets with a broad range of user groups.
- Respond to user requests for assistance and answer questions.
- Engage in efforts to publicize research and data products, including project announcements, newsletters, infographics, and generating content for social media coverage.
- Supervise project students and temporary staff.

Data Project Management (30%)

- Collaborate with project PIs and project investigators to standardize data management practices and ensure consistency across the project’s data files.
- Coordinate and oversee the necessary data documentation for the data files produced by multiple research staff.
- Improve data outputs and make them more user friendly (e.g., adding labels, applying codes for missingness, or renaming variables for consistency).
- Organize research outputs on shared network drives.
- Schedule project team meetings, set agendas, take minutes, and track action items.

Data Curation (30%)

- Write codebooks, user guides, and other documentation aimed at helping future researchers use and reuse data.
- Prepare datasets for sharing and archiving in the Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR).
- Document data curation practices.

**Required Qualifications***

- A Master’s degree in library and information science, social science, public health, or a related field.
- 3 or more years of experience related to the responsibilities of the position.
- Experience working with large datasets using Stata, SAS, SPSS, R, SQL, or other similar tools.
- Ability to work successfully in a team.
- Highly organized and detail oriented.

**Desired Qualifications***

- Demonstrated experience in writing data documentation and reports.
- Experience in user training.
- Proficiency in Stata and SAS.

**Work Locations**

This position will be on-site at the University of Michigan offices in Ann Arbor, with flexible scheduling and remote opportunities made available within our overall Center policies. If relocation is required, we will allow for reasonable time and flexibility to make necessary arrangements.

**Additional Information**

The Institute for Social Research at the University of Michigan seeks to recruit and retain a diverse workforce as a reflection of our commitment to serve the diverse people of Michigan, to maintain the excellence of the university, and to ground our research in varied disciplines, perspectives, and ways of knowing and learning.

**Benefits** 

In addition to a career filled with purpose and opportunity, U-M offers a comprehensive benefits package to help you stay well, protect yourself and your family, and plan for a secure future. Benefits include generous time off; retirement plan with two-for-one matching contributions after the first year; many choices for comprehensive health insurance; life insurance; long-term disability coverage; and flexible spending accounts for healthcare and dependent care expenses. Learn more about U-M benefits.

**Background Screening**

The University of Michigan conducts background checks on all job candidates upon acceptance of a contingent offer and may use a third-party administrator to conduct background checks. Background checks are performed in compliance with the Fair Credit Reporting Act.

**Application Deadline**

Institute for Social Research job openings are posted for a minimum of fourteen (14) calendar days. This opening may be removed from posting boards and filled any time after the minimum posting period has ended. 

**U-M EEO/AA Statement**

The University of Michigan is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.