+++
title = "Taxonomy and Information Architecture Specialist"
employer = "Harvard Business School"
employerurl = "https://www.hbs.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://sjobs.brassring.com/TGnewUI/Search/home/HomeWithPreLoad?partnerid=25240&siteid=5341&PageType=JobDetails&jobid=1958338"
postdate = "2022-07-22"
archivedate = "2022-08-22"
draft = "false"
+++
Are you excited about the idea of joining a world-class organization at the intersection of higher education and business? Are you drawn to organizations in the midst of digital transformation? If so, join us in the delivery of our mission to educate leaders who make a difference in the world in an adaptive and collaborative environment. Knowledge and Library Services (KLS) at Harvard Business School (HBS) is one of the leading academic business libraries in the world. Its innovative programs provide the expertise and resources that faculty, students, alumni, and visiting scholars depend on in order to create, share, discover, use and disseminate knowledge. Check out some of our services for the HBS Community, explore our exhibits, or just browse the library website at https://www.library.hbs.edu/.

The Information Products and Technical Services group in Harvard Business School’s Knowledge and Library Services seeks an experienced, collaborative person to join its Information Management Team.

The Information Management Team provides services in information structure, content description and access, entity management, taxonomy development and ontology management to the Harvard Business School community. Reporting to the Manager of Information Management, the Taxonomy and Information Architecture Specialist is responsible for working with stakeholders and customers to develop and maintain metadata, taxonomies and other vocabularies and/or entity lists used at KLS and HBS, tagging content with relevant vocabularies, and contributing to the ongoing development of our local ontology. The Taxonomy and Information Architecture Specialist works closely with the IPTS Technical Team to develop and maintain instance data for our local Knowledge Graph.

**Duties and Responsibilities:**

- Taxonomy and Vocabulary development, including text analysis and user testing
- Develops and maintains the KLS Ontology
- Conducts authority control and entity management for HBS-related entities such as people and organizations.
- Conducts content inventories, analysis and requirements gathering for consulting customers.
- Produces content structure recommendations and reports for consulting customers.
- Provides colleagues and customers with training and support in tagging and metadata management best practices.
- Responsible for other duties as assigned

**Working Relationships:**

- Reports to the Manager, Information Management
- Collaborates closely with KLS, HBS and HU customers by leading consulting projects and/or providing subject matter expertise. Customers include all levels of administrative staff and faculty.
- Works closely with other members of the Information Management Team and the Information Products and Technical Services Group.

**Basic Qualifications**

- Master’s degree in Library/Information Science, Information Management, Linguistics, or other relevant discipline and 3 years of applicable work experience in information management, content management, entity management, taxonomy, or other metadata work; or BA/BS in a relevant area such as library studies, information science, language studies, computer science and 4 or more years equivalent experience.

**Additional Qualifications and Skills**

- Strong attention to detail and excellent analytical and critical thinking skills. Must be flexible, adaptable, curious and willing to learn.
- Demonstrated ability to translate theory and big-picture thinking into concrete goals and tasks; write process documentation and train users (individually and/or in small groups) in applying taxonomies and metadata standards to content; support multiple projects at once, and to reprioritize as needed.
- Data analysis, cleansing, manipulation and visualization skills.
- Experience working with customers to analyze content, gather requirements for accessing content, and develop vocabularies.
- Experience with: Natural Language Processing (NLP), entity extraction, and Machine Learning (ML) tools for data analysis and manipulation; tools such as PoolParty and Protégé for taxonomy & ontology management, Schema.org, Dublin Core, RDF, RDA, and/or BIBFRAME, and name authorities or identity management practices; or with SPARQL, Python, R and/or other scripting tools.
- Advanced Excel skills highly desirable.
- Excellent organizational, writing, communication, and interpersonal skills; ability to work autonomously as well as within a team environment.
- Motivated learner with a commitment to taking initiative and thriving in an evolving and collaborative environment, and produce timely, high quality results.

Please note: Interviewed candidates will be asked to share a sample of their work, and candidates who advance to the second round will be asked to complete a couple of brief exercises.

- A cover letter is required to be considered for this opportunity.

Our expectations are that employees of HBS adhere to and represent our Community Values. They are:

- Respect for the rights, differences, and dignity of others
- Honesty and integrity in dealing with all members of the community
- Accountability for personal behavior

**Additional Information**

This role is offered as a hybrid (some combination of onsite and remote) where you are required to be onsite at our Boston, MA based campus 3 days per week. Specific days and schedule will be determined between you and your manager.

While we continue to monitor the evolving COVID-19 guidelines and restrictions, we appreciate your understanding and flexibility with our interview process. Please note that we will be conducting interviews virtually (phone and or Zoom) for selected candidates until further notice.

The University requires all Harvard community members to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and remain up to date with COVID-19 vaccine boosters, as detailed in Harvard’s Vaccine & Booster Requirements. Individuals may claim exemption from the vaccine requirement for medical or religious reasons. More information regarding the University’s COVID vaccination requirement, exemptions, and verification of vaccination status may be found at the University’s “COVID-19 Vaccine Information” webpage: http://www.harvard.edu/coronavirus/covid-19-vaccine-information/.

Harvard Business School will not offer visa sponsorship for this opportunity.

Culture of Inclusion: The work and well-being of HBS is profoundly strengthened by the diversity of our network and our differences in background, culture, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, and life experiences. Explore more about HBS work culture here https://www.hbs.edu/employment .