+++
title = "Data and Visualization Librarian"
employer = "NC State University"
employerurl = "https://ncsu.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://www.lib.ncsu.edu/jobs/ehra/data-visualization-librarian-0"
postdate = "2022-03-07"
archivedate = "2022-06-01"
draft = "false"
+++
Join the NC State University Libraries and help us create adventurous library spaces and innovative services that delight students, faculty, and researchers. The award-winning James B. Hunt Jr. Library, opened in 2013 on NC State’s Centennial Campus, offers access to advanced technologies that are enabling revolutionary ways to see and use information. Capturing NC State’s spirit of innovation in education and research, the Hunt Library is recognized as one of the world’s most creative and inspirational learning and collaborative spaces and a model for “the library of the future.” The D. H. Hill Jr. Library, serving the main campus, combines the best of tradition and innovation, housing special collections and a beautiful gallery alongside vibrant, experiential spaces such as the Learning Commons, Visualization Studio, Data Experience Lab, Virtual Reality Studio, and Makerspace. For the Libraries, shaping the future of librarianship includes a sustained commitment to creating a welcoming atmosphere for diverse populations and increasing diversity in the profession. If you are a person who would like to provide a new generation of library users with everything they can imagine and more, we encourage you to apply for this position.

The NC State University Libraries invites applications and nominations for the position of Data & Visualization Librarian. With the rapid growth of library and university Data Science initiatives, two positions are currently available, with opportunities for applicants who bring a variety of experience in these areas. The Data & Visualization Services department (6 librarians plus graduate student assistants) helps students and other researchers develop critical data science and visualization skills through expert consultation, workshops, and classroom instruction. The department provides support for a wide range of data lifecycle activities including data collection, discovery, access, evaluation, cleaning, management, modeling, analysis, geospatial techniques, and visualization. The department is the service owner for the Dataspace in the Hunt Library and the newly launched Data Experience Lab in the Hill Library, community-oriented spaces offering specialized computing, expert assistance, and programs and services supporting data science and visualization. Data & Visualization Services collaborates with other units in the Libraries to provide services to users, and with NC State’s Data Science Academy (DSA), a university-wide effort to meet the university’s growing needs for data science research, education, and expertise. The DSA is located in the Hill Library and works with library staff in the areas of data consultation, instruction, and programs to ensure that at NC State, “data science is for everyone.”

This position is based in North Carolina. This position is eligible for flexible hours with a hybrid work environment. This position will require frequent onsite work.

**Responsibilities**

The Data & Visualization Librarian provides expert consultative support for students, faculty, and researchers in the areas of data science and visualization. They design, develop, and deliver workshops on data science and visualization topics, both as part of an open workshop series offered to the university community and in collaboration with faculty for course-integrated instruction sessions. The position coaches graduate student Data Science Consultants on advanced consultations in areas of expertise. They engage with faculty, campus groups, and external partners to support the university’s data and visualization needs. They conduct relevant outreach and participate in sponsoring events. The incumbent collaborates with colleagues and faculty on data-related initiatives and projects, and they contribute to departmental projects and initiatives. The position participates in library planning and serves on library-wide committees, task forces, and teams. The position deeply considers how their approach to their daily work reflects and advances the Libraries’ core values of equity, diversity, and inclusion, creating an environment and community that is welcoming for both patrons and colleagues alike. They integrate issues related to data ethics, justice, accessibility, and equity into the provision of data services. Librarians are expected to be active professionally and to contribute to developments in the field. The position reports to the Department Head, Data & Visualization Services.

**Required Qualifications**

Applicants are encouraged to think broadly about and communicate how their skills and experiences transfer to the qualifications in ways that may not be obvious. We strongly encourage those who will further advance the Libraries’ commitment to fostering a diverse and inclusive community, including those from historically underrepresented groups, to apply for this position. We welcome applicants with a range of experiences, including those new to the profession.

- ALA-accredited MLS, MIS, or other relevant, advanced degree 
- Ability to provide public services, such as consultation, workshop and instruction delivery, and engagement with users across campus
- Experience with R, Python, or other programming languages for data wrangling, analysis, and visualization
- Demonstrated ability to learn and apply new technical skills and tools; evidence of ongoing, self-directed learning
- Commitment to fostering an environment of equity, diversity, and inclusion
- Ability to communicate clearly and knowledgeably through a variety of mediums
- Evidence of ability for ongoing professional development and contribution 
- Ability to collaborate effectively and work in a team environment

**Preferred Qualifications**

The following preferred skills represent some of the areas in which this position could potentially grow and focus, based on the incumbent's background and interests. We look forward to working with the new colleagues to develop their expertise to complement the existing suite of Data & Visualization Services.

- Knowledge of data analysis and visualization tools or programs, such as Tableau, GIS applications, OpenRefine, MATLAB, NVivo, or others 
- Knowledge of foundational data science concepts, such as those related to data discovery, cleaning, and creating effective workflows
- Knowledge of advanced data analysis techniques

**Salary and Benefits**

The Libraries offers a highly competitive salary in recognition of applicable education and experience for this position. Minimum salary: $72,000 annually. Librarians have non-tenure track faculty status (without levels of rank). Benefits include:  24 days vacation, 12 days sick leave; State of NC preferred provider medical insurance, and state, TIAA/CREF, or other retirement options. Additional and optional dental, life, disability, deferred compensation, and legal plans are offered. Tuition waiver program for all campuses of The University of North Carolina is available. More benefits information is available at https://benefits.hr.ncsu.edu.