+++
title = "Research Data Systems Archivist"
employer = "University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Odum Institute"
employerurl = "https://odum.unc.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://unc.peopleadmin.com/postings/221668"
postdate = "2022-02-22"
archivedate = "2022-04-10"
draft = "false"
+++
Department: H W Odum Inst Res Social Sci-631300
: Career Area: Research Professionals
: Application Deadline: 03/07/2022
: Open Until Filled: No
: Position Type: Permanent Staff (EHRA NF)
: Working Title: Research Data Systems Archivist
: Appointment Type: EHRA Non-Faculty
: Position Number: 20042780
: Vacancy ID: NF0005637
: Full-Time Permanent
: FTE: 1
: Hours per week: 40
: Position Location: North Carolina, US
: Proposed Start Date: 03/07/2022

**Primary Purpose of Organizational Unit**

Founded in 1924, the Odum Institute for Research in Social Science provides training, consultation, and research support services to faculty, staff, and students across the UNC-Chapel Hill campus and beyond. Odum expands Carolina’s impact by providing education and support for planning, implementing, and disseminating research. We work to advance rigorous and reproducible research across the data, social and health sciences, while building collaborative, trans-disciplinary research networks. Positioned in the Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research, the Institute is funded through state/university appropriations and grants/contracts led by Institute staff. 

The Institute is situated within a campus with a continually growing and diverse faculty, staff, and student body. Deeply committed to diversity, the Odum Institute has created a Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) committee, and is also pioneering a Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in Research Certificate (DEIR) program. Applications are encouraged from individuals with a commitment to building a diverse and inclusive organization where members from all backgrounds can live, learn, and thrive together.

**Position Summary**

The primary purpose of the Research Data Archivist position is to: 1) coordinate with the Research Data Information Systems team to engage in scholarly research and systems development to improve archival workflows to allow for scaling and expansion of data support services and capabilities; 2) execute standards-based data management and curation workflows for UNC and external agreements and contracts; 3) establish training programs that support researchers’ adoption of data management best practices as part of normative research practice; 4) implement a strategy to expand research data archival collections through solicitations to local and external producers of social science data that meet collections development policy criteria; 5) make significant contributions to the data archives profession to help improve data stewardship practices through community engagement and professional development; and 6) perform administrative duties as needed to support archive operations.

**Minimum Education and Experience Requirements**

Relevant post-Baccalaureate degree required (or foreign degree equivalent); for candidates demonstrating comparable independent research productivity, will accept a relevant Bachelor’s degree (or foreign degree equivalent) and 3 or more years of relevant experience in substitution. May require terminal degree and licensure.

**Required Qualifications, Competencies, and Experience**

- Coursework in computer science or related courses focused on software/systems development, or demonstrated experience in software/systems development using Python, JavaScript, SQL, and/or other programming languages required.
- Demonstrated proficiency in various statistical software packages such as Stata, R, and SPSS, and a strong willingness and aptitude for gaining mastery of other statistics programs required.
- Practical knowledge of data curation and management workflows in accordance with established archive standards and best practices required.
- Experience using statistical software packages such as R, Stata, and SPSS for research data handling and quality review as well as working knowledge of Python, JavaScript, SQL, or other programming languages is required.
- The ability to effectively communicate data management and curation concepts verbally and in written form to various audiences and individuals is essential.

**Preferred Qualifications, Competencies, and Experience**

Advanced degree in information and library sciences (MSIS/MLIS) with coursework in digital archives and related topics, or related combination of graduate-level education and experience is preferred.

The position prefers a minimum of five (5) years of experience working in a data archives or in the capacity of an research data management/support professional, with at least three (3) years of experience in software/systems development. The ideal candidate would possess comprehensive applied knowledge of data management and curation in the context of the research lifecycle as it applies to a variety of disciplinary domains. Knowledge should include the application of data management and curation best practices during research project design, data collection, data analysis, and data sharing, with expertise in prevailing standards for data quality. Familiarity with research support technologies such as Jupyter, Docker, and high-performance computing is a plus.
The preferred candidate would also have experience developing and providing data management or related training to audiences of varying knowledge, diverse backgrounds, and different levels of ability.

**Campus Security Authority Responsibilities**

Not Applicable.

**Office of Human Resources Contact Information**

If you experience any problems accessing the system or have questions about the application process, please contact the Office of Human Resources at (919) 843-2300 or send an email to employment@unc.edu

Please note: The Office of Human Resources will not be able to provide specific updates regarding position or application status.

**Equal Opportunity Employer Statement**

The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to age, color, disability, gender, gender expression, gender identity, genetic information, national origin, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, or status as a protected veteran.

**Applicant Documents**

Required Documents

- Curriculum Vitae / Resume
- Cover Letter
- List of References
