+++
title = "Archival UNIX Applications Analyst"
employer = "Odum Institute-Univeristy of North Carolina at Chapel Hill"
employerurl = "https://odum.unc.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://unc.peopleadmin.com/postings/240527"
postdate = "2022-09-30"
archivedate = "2022-11-10"
draft = "false"
+++

**Archival UNIX Applications Analyst**

We are pleased to announce that we are accepting applications for a permanent position at the Odum Institute at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill! 


The Archival UNIX Applications Analyst is a new position that will provide basic support of UNIX server platforms including set-up, configurations, troubleshooting, diagnostics, and instruction. Position will consult with clients to identify problem areas with IT applications and services and, as a team member, suggest and implement solutions to client needs. 


This position is an exciting opportunity for someone who can bring their expertise in research data and UNIX systems to the Odum’s Research Data Information Systems team. We are looking forward to extending our capabilities to provide more specialized data services while also strengthening our collaboration with the Data Archive team on archival workflows and R&D projects. If you are interested in joining a team working creatively to advance research data systems, please see the posting at the link below and apply today!


[https://unc.peopleadmin.com/postings/240527](https://unc.peopleadmin.com/postings/240527)

Salary Range: 		$75,000-$126,000

Department: 			H W Odum Inst Res Social Sci-631300

Career Area :		Research Professionals

Posting Open Date:	09/21/2022

Application Deadline:10/18/2022

Position Type:		Permanent Staff (EHRA NF)

Working Title:		Archival UNIX Applications Analyst

Appointment Type:	EHRA Non-Faculty Research

Position Number:		20050282

Vacancy ID:			NF0006288

Full Time/Part Time:	Full-Time Permanent

FTE:				1

Hours per week:		40

Position Location:	North Carolina, US

Hiring Range:		Dependent Upon Qualifications

Proposed Start Date:	11/01/2022

**Primary Purpose of Organizational Unit:**

Founded in 1924, the Odum Institute for Research in Social Science provides training, consultation, and research support services to faculty, staff, and students across the UNC-Chapel Hill campus and beyond. Odum expands Carolina’s impact by providing education and support for planning, implementing, and disseminating research. We work to advance rigorous and reproducible research across the data, social and health sciences, while building collaborative, trans-disciplinary research networks. Positioned in the Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research, the Institute is funded through state/university appropriations and grants/contracts led by Institute staff.

The Institute is situated within a campus with a continually growing and diverse faculty, staff, and student body. Deeply committed to diversity, the Odum Institute has created a Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) committee, and is also pioneering a Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in Research Certificate (DEIR) program. Applications are encouraged from individuals with a commitment to building a diverse and inclusive organization where members from all backgrounds can live, learn, and thrive together.

**Position Summary:**

The Archival UNIX Applications Analyst position will provide Information Technology consultation, support and training to Odum professional staff and clients using Odum UNIX based systems. The position will provide basic support of UNIX server platforms including set-up, configurations, troubleshooting and diagnostics and instruction as to use, Position will consult with clients to identify problem areas with IT applications and services and, as a team member, suggest and implement solutions to client needs. The position requires work group leadership to solve installation and support problems that arise during operation of the operation and design of the Odum UNIX infrastructure. This position will also provide installation support for applications used by Odum programmers and design teams on various grant funded projects. In addition this position will provide the UNIX and database support for the Odum Data Archive.

**Minimum Education and Experience Requirements:**

Master’s and 1-2 years’ experience; or Bachelors and 2-4 years’ experience; or will accept a combination of related education and experience in substitution.

**Required Qualifications, Competencies, and Experience:**

N/A

**Preferred Qualifications, Competencies, and Experience:**

One year experience with managing backup and storage systems. Experience managing SQl databases preferably based on Postgres. Experience maintaining Linux based server environments preferably based on Redhat or CENTOS. Experience with supporting Amazon Cloud Services

Eight years in a computer-related field, including four years UNIX administration and one year managing storage systems.

Graduation from a four-year college or university with areas of study in computer programming, computer science or information science or a closely related field and four years of experience in Linux administration; or an equivalent combination of training and experience.

**Campus Security Authority Responsibilities:**

Not Applicable.

**Job Location**

Chapel Hill, NC
