+++
title = "Business Resource Librarian"
employer = "University of California-Berkeley"
employerurl = "https://lib.berkeley.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://aprecruit.berkeley.edu/JPF03573"
postdate = "2022-09-13"
archivedate = "2022-11-20"
draft = "false"
+++

**Business Resource Librarian - Library**

Job #JPF03573
LIBRARY / LIB UC Library / UC Berkeley

**Position overview**

Position title: Associate Librarian, Career Status or Potential Career Status

Salary range: Minimum salary of $66,878

Percent time: 100%

Anticipated start: November 1, 2022

Position duration: This is a career position, indefinite end date.

**Application Window**

Open date: August 17, 2022

Most recent review date: Wednesday, Sep 21, 2022 at 11:59pm (Pacific Time)
Applications received after this date will be reviewed by the search committee if the position has not yet been filled.

Final date: Monday, Jul 31, 2023 at 11:59pm (Pacific Time)
Applications will continue to be accepted until this date, but those received after the review date will only be considered if the position has not yet been filled.

**Position description**

The University of California, Berkeley Library seeks a collaborative and user-centered librarian to join a team supporting world-class teaching and research through active engagement with collection development, data and information literacy initiatives, course-based instruction, and individual research assistance.

**The Environment**

The UC Berkeley Library is an internationally renowned research and teaching facility at one of the nation's premier public universities. A highly diverse and intellectually rich environment, Berkeley serves a campus community of 30,000 undergraduate students, over 11,000 graduate students, and 1,500 faculty. With a collection of more than 12 million volumes and a collections budget of over $15 million, the Library offers extensive collections in all formats and robust services to connect users with those collections and build their related research skills. The Library’s mission and strategic plan can be viewed at the link below.

The Library’s Social Sciences Division consists of four subject libraries—Anthropology, Business, Environmental Design, and Social Research—and the collections and services located in Doe Library/Gardner MAIN Stacks. Collectively, the staff—10 librarians, 9 library staff, and over 50 student library employees—support the research, teaching, and study needs of students and faculty in twelve social science departments within the College of Letters & Science, six professional schools, three International and Area Studies programs, and an array of Organized Research Units.

The Haas School of Business is one of the world’s top-ranked business schools and the second oldest in the United States. The School offers six degree programs: Undergraduate, Full-Time MBA, Evening & Weekend MBA, Executive MBA, Masters in Financial Engineering, and PhD. Haas fosters an inclusive culture with a commitment to four defining principles: Question the Status Quo, Confidence Without Attitude, Students Always, and Beyond Yourself.

**Responsibilities**

The Business Resource Librarian helps researchers at the Haas School of Business, the broader campus, and members of the community to find, evaluate, and use information about companies, industries, and financial markets. This position will also manage data subscriptions on behalf of the Haas School of Business, in consultation with the Business Librarian and Haas Research Computing. The librarian reports to the head of the Library’s Social Sciences Division.

The librarian:

- Provides virtual and in-person research consultations
- Offers course-related instruction, in person and online
- Creates instructional materials in a variety of formats
- Collaborates with the Business Librarian on collection assessment projects
-  Manages vendor relationships with Haas Research Computing’s financial data providers, including negotiating price and access method
- Assesses the suite of research data products offered by Haas Research Computing
- Submits data invoices and coordinates payment with Berkeley Supply Chain - Management (BearBuy) or other campus entities
- Collaborates with the Library’s Acquisitions and Electronic Resources Units on data licensing

UC Berkeley librarians and academic staff participate in library-wide planning and governance, and work effectively in a shared decision-making environment. Advancement is partially based upon professional contributions beyond the primary assignment; the successful candidate will show evidence or promise of such contributions to the Library, campus, UC System, and profession.

The UC Berkeley Library is committed to supporting and encouraging a multicultural environment and seeks candidates who can make positive and imaginative contributions in a context of ethnic and cultural diversity.

UC professional librarians are academic appointees and are represented by an exclusive bargaining agent, the University Council – American Federation of Teachers (UC-AFT). This position is covered by the collective bargaining agreement of the AFT.

Librarians are entitled to appropriate professional development leave, vacation leave, sick leave, and all other benefits granted to non-faculty academic personnel. The University has an excellent retirement system and sponsors a variety of group health, dental, vision, and life insurance plans in addition to other benefits. The rank and step of the appointment is determined by the professional background of competence, knowledge, and experience of the candidate in relation to all Berkeley librarians.

Division: [http://stories.lib.berkeley.edu/strategicplan/](http://stories.lib.berkeley.edu/strategicplan/)

**Qualifications**

**Basic qualifications** (required at time of application)

-  Advanced degree or enrolled in an advanced degree program

**Additional qualifications (required at time of start)**

- Advanced degree

**Preferred qualifications**

- Master’s degree from an ALA-accredited institution or equivalent international degree.
- Experience providing reference and/or instructional services in a library.
- Demonstrated commitment to equity, diversity, and inclusion.
- Familiarity with professional company and industry databases.
- Knowledge of financial market data sources.
- Experience negotiating with data providers.
- Experience with, or course work in, collection development.
- Demonstrated written communication skills.
- Demonstrated presentation skills.

**Application Requirements**

**Document requirements**

- Curriculum Vitae - Your most recently updated C.V.
- Cover Letter
- Statement on Contributions to Advancing Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion - Statement on your contributions to diversity, equity, and inclusion, including information about your understanding of these topics, your record of activities to date, and your specific plans and goals for advancing equity and inclusion if hired at Berkeley (for additional information go to [https://ofew.berkeley.edu/recruitment/contributions-diversity](https://ofew.berkeley.edu/recruitment/contributions-diversity).

**Reference requirements**

- 3 required (contact information only)

Apply link: [https://aprecruit.berkeley.edu/JPF03573](https://aprecruit.berkeley.edu/JPF03573)

Help contact: hrd-library@berkeley.edu

**Campus Information**

Diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging are core values at UC Berkeley. Our excellence can only be fully realized by faculty, students, and academic and non-academic staff who share our commitment to these values. Successful candidates for our academic positions will demonstrate evidence of a commitment to advancing equity, inclusion, and belonging.

The University of California, Berkeley is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, or protected veteran status. For the complete University of California nondiscrimination and affirmative action policy see: [http://policy.ucop.edu/doc/4000376/NondiscrimAffirmAct](http://policy.ucop.edu/doc/4000376/NondiscrimAffirmAct)

In searches when letters of reference are required all letters will be treated as confidential per University of California policy and California state law. Please refer potential referees, including when letters are provided via a third party (i.e., dossier service or career center), to the UC Berkeley statement of confidentiality ([http://apo.berkeley.edu/ucb-confidentiality-policy](http://apo.berkeley.edu/ucb-confidentiality-policy)) prior to submitting their letter.

As a condition of employment, you will be required to comply with the University of California SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) Vaccination Program Policy. All Covered Individuals under the policy must provide proof of Full Vaccination or, if applicable, submit a request for Exception (based on Medical Exemption, Disability, and/or Religious Objection) or Deferral (based on pregnancy) no later than the applicable deadline. Please refer to Appendix F, Section II.C. of the policy for the deadlines applicable to new University of California employees. (Capitalized terms in this paragraph are defined in the policy.) Federal, state, or local public health directives may impose additional requirements.

Positions that are represented by a collective bargaining unit or agent have particular contracts. For more information, please refer to the relevant contract: [Lecturer contract](https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/labor/bargaining-units/ix/index.html), [Postdoctoral contract](https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/labor/bargaining-units/px/index.html), [Research Series contract](https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/labor/bargaining-units/ra/index.html), and [Librarian contract](https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/labor/bargaining-units/lx/index.html). Questions about represented positions can be directed to the hiring unit.

**Job location**
Berkeley, CA

