+++
title = "Director, Research Data Services & Collections"
employer = "Stanford Graduate School of Business"
employerurl = "https://stanford.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://careersearch.stanford.edu/jobs/director-research-data-services-collections-17224"
postdate = "2022-05-17"
archivedate = "2022-07-01"
draft = "false"
+++
Job Summary
: Schedule Full-time
: Employee Status Regular
: Grade L

**Stanford Graduate School of Business**

Stanford's Graduate School of Business has built a global reputation based on its immersive and innovative management programs. We provide students a transformative leadership experience, pushing the boundaries of knowledge with faculty research, and offering a portfolio of entrepreneurial and non-degree programs that deliver global impact like no other. We are committed to advancing diversity, equity, and inclusion in service of our mission of developing innovative, principled, and insightful leaders who change lives, change organizations, and change the world. We invite you to be part of this mission.

The Stanford Graduate School of Business invites applications and nominations for the position of Director of Research Data Services & Collections for the GSB Library in the Research Hub. Within the GSB Research Hub, library collections no longer mean just monographs, serials, and electronic subscription databases. In addition to these baseline activities, the Director will manage the acquisition and lifecycle of data purchased and donated on behalf of faculty and PhD researchers, as well as other digital materials.

The Director of Research Data Services & Collections has two overarching areas of responsibility. The first is to support individual faculty members in their attempts to acquire data sources from both established data vendors and individual organizations with whom the faculty have established a relationship. The incumbent will be responsive to individual faculty member requests and needs and will skillfully help the faculty secure access to the desired data sources in a timely manner. Second, the Director is responsible for architecting and executing on the GSB Library’s collections strategy. Both areas of responsibility require skills in contract negotiation, licensing and vendor management, research partnerships, and digital collections curation, along with budget management, and management of departmental personnel.

Reports to the Assistant Dean and Executive Director of the Research Hub and serves as a member of the Library’s management team. The incumbent will plan, implement, and evaluate operations, establish policies and procedures, and set priorities in consultation with Library Leadership, Research Hub technical specialists, collections specialists, and other University Libraries. Management of the research data lifecycle will involve working with acquisition and contracting specialists within the Library, University contracting offices, and the Data, Analytics, and Research Computing unit of the Research Hub.

The role requires a deep understanding of contracting and licensing of content in an academic research environment, strong financial and analytical skills, along with the ability to coordinate research data management.

**Your primary responsibilities include:**

- Assist faculty in acquiring research data and other resources for individual faculty research projects.
- Provide consultation and support to individual faculty members seeking guidance on research data acquisition and management of data sets through the project life cycle.
- Oversee collections development, contracting and data licensing, and research partnerships.
- Manage team responsible for data contracting and curation.
- Oversee finances and expenditures across the unit.
- Work with Research Support Librarians on collections strategy.
- Coordinate with Library Technical Services on procurement processes and partner with them on collections metrics and collections cataloging.
- Work collaboratively with other leaders within the GSB and across the University to develop an overall collections strategy including planning, developing, interpreting, and implementing policies and procedures.
- Coach, inspire, and mentor Collections team and others to ensure the effective organization of departmental workflows and the transition to new service models that improve efficiencies and provide positive improvements for Research Hub patrons and staff.
- Interpret, implement and ensure compliance with university academic and administrative policies and procedures. Recommend new internal policies, guidelines and procedures.
- In collaboration with other units within the Research Hub, manage the lifecycle of content from acquisitions, resource management & availability, to metadata creation & enhancement and discovery.
- Facilitate the creation, maintenance, and enhancement of unique GSB digital collections, including both purchased datasets for broad use, and individual GSB faculty datasets.
- Participate on library, university, and consortia committees.

**To be successful in this position, you will bring:**

- Advanced Degree in Library and Information Science and five years of relevant experience in an academic setting including at least three years of management experience in increasingly responsible positions, or a combination of education and relevant experience. A postgraduate degree in a related discipline may be required or substituted for a master’s degree in information science. In addition, preference will be given to a candidate with a second Master’s or PhD.
- Demonstrated skills and knowledge of academic management and organization, and academic budgets. Strong leadership and decision-making skills. Ability to lead organizational change, inspire innovation, and delegate responsibility appropriately. Ability to ensure confidentiality around sensitive issues. Ability to lead in a shared decision-making environment.
- Strong commitment to service and a responsive, problem solving-orientation.
- Demonstrated commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion. Proven commitment to nurturing staff development and professional growth. Ability to create effective goals and objectives and help others do the same. Excellent organizational and time management skills.
- Demonstrated expertise in contract negotiation and administration.
- Familiarity with technologies used in research data storage and computation.
- Experience with research data, ideally in business and social science disciplines.
- Excellent verbal and written communication and presentation skills and a demonstrated ability to work well with others in a team environment
- Demonstrated initiative in fostering new ideas and implementing change.

**In addition, desired skills and experience include:**

- An advanced degree in a social sciences field, or law degree is strongly preferred.
- Successful experience developing and maintaining collections budgets.
- Experience with relevant aspects of library operations including understanding of contemporary library practices, trends and emerging technologies.
- Experience with electronic resource management systems and digital asset management systems.
- Awareness of issues and technical challenges related to data curation, including privacy and de-identification, format migration, preservation, metadata, discovery, provenance, and data access (including Open Access).
- Broad knowledge of library automation systems, online resources, data storage and research computing.

**Why Stanford is for You**

Stanford’s dedicated 16,000 staff come from diverse educational and career backgrounds. We are a collaborative environment that thrives on innovation and continuous improvement. At Stanford, we seek talent committed to excellence, driven to impact the future of our legacy, and improve lives on a global sphere. We provide competitive salaries, excellent health care and retirement plans, and a generous vacation policy, including additional time off during our winter closure. Our generous perks align with what matters to you:

- Freedom to grow. Take advantage of career development programs, tuition reimbursement, or audit a course. Join a TedTalk, film screening, or listen to a renowned author or leader discuss global issues.
- A caring culture. We understand the importance of your personal and family time and provide you access to wellness programs, child-care resources, parent education and consultation, elder care and caregiving support.
- A healthier you. We make wellness a priority by providing access to world-class exercise facilities. Climb our rock wall, or participate in one of hundreds of health or fitness classes.
- Discovery and fun. Visit campus gardens, trails, and museums.
- Enviable resources. We offer free commuter programs and ridesharing incentives. Enjoy discounts for computers, cell phones, recreation, travel, entertainment, and more!

We pride ourselves in being a culture that encourages and empowers you.