+++
title = "GIS Specialist"
employer = "Temple University"
employerurl = "https://www.temple.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://temple.taleo.net/careersection/tu_ex_staff/jobdetail.ftl?job=22000929"
postdate = "2022-03-22"
archivedate = "2022-06-01"
draft = "false"
+++
Join an innovative and collaborative team developing geospatial services at one of Philadelphia’s most vibrant university libraries. Temple University Libraries seeks an enthusiastic, user-focused Geographic Information Systems Specialist to support the use of geospatial data and methodologies in instruction and research. The position is based at our new, state-of-the-art main library and will work closely with library staff, students, and faculty. Interested candidates from diverse backgrounds, including academic, corporate, non-profit, and government are encouraged to apply. 

Temple University Libraries serves the Temple community and beyond, including more than 37,000 students; over 2,000 full-time faculty; and researchers and visitors on Main, Center City, and Health Sciences Center campuses in Philadelphia and on our Ambler and Harrisburg campuses. We are committed to providing research and learning services, offering open access to our facilities and information resources, and fostering innovation and experimentation. Our collections total more than four million physical and digital titles, over 275,000 print and electronic journal subscriptions, and more than 700 research databases. We also collect, preserve, and provide access to a broad universe of special collections, including rare books, manuscripts, archives, photographs, and more. As part of our library enterprise, the award-winning Temple University Press supports our mission to advance learning and scholarship. For more information about Temple and Philadelphia, visit http://www.temple.edu/about/. 

**Primary Duties and Responsibilities:**

Reporting to the Head of the Business, Social Sciences, and Education unit within Learning & Research Services, the Geographic Information Systems Specialist (GISS) supports and develops the Libraries’ GIS services. Recognizing the multidisciplinary importance of geospatial data and technologies, the GISS collaborates with many stakeholders to support GIS for research, teaching and learning at Temple University. The GISS combines specialized knowledge of geospatial data and methods with technical expertise in GIS to lead new initiatives, services, and instructional offerings related to geospatial information. The Specialist has a strong foundation in GIS technologies and works with faculty, staff, and students across campus to enhance their access to and use of geospatial data. Provides consultation and assistance with GIS, mapping, and geospatial data visualization and analysis, both on-demand and through ongoing project collaboration. Assists researchers with locating and accessing geospatial data and provides guidance on data management. The Specialist is adept at communicating technical information to users at all skill levels, from beginner to advanced. In conjunction with librarians and other library staff, the GISS provides workshops on geospatial data, concepts and technologies. Collaborates with the Libraries’ subject librarians, Scholars Studio staff, Research Data Services team, and other departments. Fosters relationships with the Department of Geography and Urban Studies, other GIS-related groups, and individual GIS users on campus. Co-organizes GIS Day and other programming. Develops and maintains knowledge of trends in GIS data and tools; advises librarians and other library staff on adopting and promoting these technologies. Markets the Libraries’ GIS services to the Temple University community. Manages assigned special projects. Performs other duties as assigned.

**Required Education and Experience:**

Master’s degree in Geographic Information Systems or comparable degree, such as Geography or Urban Planning, or other discipline with a significant GIS component. Minimum one year of experience in the use of GIS software to store, manage, create, analyze, and display geospatial data in a corporate, non-profit, or educational setting. Experience providing GIS services in an organization. Experience with GIS programming and web mapping. An equivalent combination of education and experience may be considered.

Required Skills and Abilities:

- Demonstrated knowledge of digital mapping and GIS technologies such as ArcGIS products, QGIS, Carto, Leaflet, Mapbox, spatial databases, Google mapping products, and/or others

- Knowledge of geospatial data sources; ability to identify user data needs and appropriate resources to meet those needs

- Fluency with digital presentation and visualization technologies

- Ability to use spreadsheet, statistical, digital design, coding environments, and/or other programs that support working with geospatial data

- Excellent oral and written communication skills; ability to communicate effectively with other library staff and with patrons seeking assistance

- Strong customer service orientation and proficiency with providing one-on-one and small group training and support

- Good teamwork and project management skills

- Broad familiarity with the evolving technical and research environment for geospatial data and methods

- Ability to quickly learn new tools and technologies


Preferred Skills and Abilities:

- Experience in programming languages such as Python or R

- Statistical skills to effectively provide GIS support

- Experience in a social science or science discipline

- Experience providing services in a research library and an understanding of the mission and function of a large academic library in a research university

- Familiarity with data management best practices

- Experience working with students

- Development of online instructional materials and/or online presentation experience.

- Knowledge of library information resources including bibliographic and full-text databases and library online catalogs

- Ability to identify appropriate materials and software, in various formats, to add to the library collection

- Demonstrated commitment to diversity and inclusion in an academic environment, in a workplace setting, or in the community.

**Compensation:**

Competitive salary and benefits package, including relocation allowance. 

**To apply:**

To apply for this position, please visit www.temple.edu, click on Careers at Temple at the bottom of the home page, and reference job #22000929.  For full consideration, please submit your completed electronic application, along with a cover letter and resume. Review of applications will begin immediately and will continue until the position is filled. 

Temple University is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer with a strong commitment to cultural diversity.