+++
title = "Data Services Senior Analyst"
employer = "Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia"
employerurl = "https://www.philadelphiafed.org/"
moreinfourl = "https://rb.wd5.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/FRS/job/Philadelphia-PA/Data-Services-Senior-Analyst_R-0000007963-1"
postdate = "2022-03-24"
archivedate = "2022-06-01"
draft = "false"
+++
The Data Services Senior Analyst will be a member of the Bank’s Data Services team responsible for core operational activities as well as contributing to continuous improvement of services and capabilities for using and managing data.

The Senior Analyst will handle matters that are particularly complex and ambiguous, often time-sensitive, supporting the Bank’s research community and others, being responsive to demand priorities while managing risk.

Daily activities include providing user support, clearing work products (such as research papers) for data considerations/accordance with terms of use prior to external release, coordinating external collaborator arrangements, facilitating data acquisitions and discoverability, and enforcing compliance.

The Senior Analyst will have frequent contact with Bank and Federal Reserve System staff across a wide range of organizational levels as well as external service providers and collaborators. The Senior Analyst will collaborate with other service providers including Information Technology and Procurement.

The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia is one of the 12 regional Reserve Banks that, together with the Board of Governors in Washington, D.C., make up the Federal Reserve System. It helps formulate and implement monetary policy, supervises banks, savings and loan holding companies, and provides financial services to depository institutions and the federal government. The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia serves eastern and central Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey, and Delaware.

**Job Responsibilities:**

Data Services

Provide user support

- Answer user questions

- Manage user access

- Educate users on data terms of use based on comprehensive, practical understanding of terms from contracts and other sources

- Develop and maintain terms of use agreements and other related materials

- Deliver group training as well as one-on-one sessions

Clear work products (such as research papers) for data considerations/accordance with terms of use prior to external release

- Read work products to identify potential issues and comments

- Coordinate required external reviews from initiation to resolution

- Develop and maintain strong positive relationships with external reviewer contacts on behalf of the Bank

- Report status and resolve matters with authors and other stakeholders

Coordinate external collaborator arrangements

- Work with Bank personnel to understand needs for each project

- Determine requirements in partnership with Legal and other stakeholders

- Facilitate arrangement terms and logistics

- Monitor and track arrangements over time

Facilitate data acquisitions and discoverability

- Support logistical steps associated with data acquisitions

- Create and update data documentation (including entries for catalogs) and communications

- Keep track of data loads and evaluations

- Establish subject matter expertise about data sets

Enforce compliance

- Proactively monitor activities for compliance

- Conduct periodic reviews

- Follow-up on matters through resolution

Continuous Improvement

- Contribute to continuous improvement of services and capabilities for using and managing data.

- Actively support and participate on the Bank’s Data Council.

- Stay apprised of the latest news/guidance on data management to inform work.

- Ensure appropriate data management principles are upheld in practice.

Other Projects and Initiatives

- Participate on department, Bank and/or System projects and initiatives.

- Fulfill duties and responsibilities in conformance with proper safety and security practices.

- Demonstrate effective skills for grade and position.

- Performs other related duties as assigned.

Education and Experience:

- Bachelor's degree in a business or quantitative discipline such as economics, finance, business analytics or related Master’s degree such as Library/Information Science from an ALA (American Library Association) accredited graduate program with course work in economics, finance, or business and experience managing data use.

- Minimum of seven years practical experience.

- Relevant professional certifications/accreditations strongly preferred.

Knowledge and Skills:

- Analytical thinker with problem-solving skills and assertiveness

- Ability and willingness to exercise sound judgment and apply healthy professional skepticism effectively, consider the big picture in addition to tactical details, solid business perspective and appreciation for research

- Attention to detail and organization

- Strong interpersonal and listening skills, approachable, ability to diffuse conflict, build consensus, communicate effectively with various levels of personnel and different types of specialists including economists, quantitative analysts, and technical engineers

- Agile and comfortable working in an evolving environment

- Customer-service oriented, responsive to voluminous, time-sensitive requests and questions

- Strong time management skills, recognize and demonstrate priorities

- Capable working independently or collaboratively as part of a team as circumstances dictate

- Writing skills to document work and to create process and control materials as well as communications

- Comfortable using (or adept at learning on their own how to use) various evolving data management and analytics technology solutions, while following strict information security requirements

- Able to support diverse, large micro data sets

- Proficient in Microsoft Apps (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Planner)

- Comfortable using and managing Teams and SharePoint sites as well as Outlook

Physical Requirements:

- Must be able to work long hours at a personal computer.

- Ability to lift and carry up to 10 pounds at times.

**Other Requirements:**

Background investigations and drug testing are required for all new hires as a condition of employment, after the job offer is made. Candidates for positions deemed as "safety sensitive" will also be screened for the presence of marijuana. Employment may not begin until the Bank accepts the results of the background investigation.

A requirement of this position is that the employee must be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 or qualify for an accommodation due to medical condition or sincerely held religious belief.

This position requires access to confidential supervisory information and/or FOMC information, which is limited to “Protected Individuals” as defined in the U.S. federal immigration law. Protected Individuals include, but are not limited to, U.S. citizens, U.S. nationals, and U.S. permanent residents who either are not yet eligible to apply for naturalization or who have applied for naturalization within the requisite timeframe. Candidates who are permanent residents must sign a declaration of intent to become a U.S. citizen when eligible to do so and pursue a path to citizenship. Candidates who are not U.S. citizens or U.S. permanent residents may be eligible for the information access required for this position if they sign a declaration of intent to become a permanent resident and a U.S. citizen and meet other eligibility requirements. In addition, all candidates must undergo an applicable background check and comply with all applicable information handling rules.

All Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia employees must comply with the Bank's ethics rules, which generally prohibit employees, their spouses/domestic partners, and minor children from owning securities, such as stock, of banks or savings associations or their affiliates, such as bank holding companies and savings and loan holding companies. If you or your spouse/domestic partner or minor child own such securities, and would not be willing or able to divest them if you accepted an offer of Bank employment, you should raise this issue with the Recruiter for this posting, who can provide you contact information for our ethics officer if necessary. You should review the Bank's Employee Code of Conduct (https://www.philadelphiafed.org/-/media/frbp/assets/institutional/careers/Full-Code-of-Conduct-with-Appendices-A-and-B-10-01-21.pdf) to ensure compliance with conflict of interest rules and personal investment restrictions.

All employees will be subject to FBI fingerprint / criminal background and Patriot Act/ Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) watch list checks at least once every five years.

Our benefit plans are designed to be the best fit for you at every stage of your career!

- Excellent health, prescription, dental and vision coverage
- Savings Thrift Plan (401K) with a 100% match up to 6% and a pension plan
- Paid vacation / sick time / paid holidays and a flexible work environment
- Numerous Employee Resource Groups to help you thrive and grow at the Fed in a diverse and inclusive environment
- Healthy lifestyle assistance through an on-site fitness center, subsidized cafeteria with healthy food options, and health and wellness programs
- Monthly public transportation allowance
- Numerous internal development programs plus annual tuition reimbursement programs
- Free credit protection, financial planning, and flexible spending accounts or health savings accounts and much more!

The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia believes that diversity and inclusion among our employees is essential to our success as an organization, and we want to recruit, develop and retain the most accomplished people from a diverse candidate pool. To support a workplace culture of belonging, we offer seven employee resource groups (ERGs) and a 100 percent rating on the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) Corporate Equality Index. The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia is proud to be an equal opportunity workplace.

Full Time / Part Time: Full time
Regular / Temporary: Regular
Job Exempt (Yes / No): Yes
Job Category: Economics/Research
Work Shift: First (United States of America)

The Federal Reserve Banks believe that diversity and inclusion among our employees is critical to our success as an organization, and we seek to recruit, develop and retain the most talented people from a diverse candidate pool. The Federal Reserve Banks are committed to equal employment opportunity for employees and job applicants in compliance with applicable law and to an environment where employees are valued for their differences.