+++
title = "Research Data Practices Lead"
employer = "Emory University"
employerurl = "https://emory.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://staff-emory.icims.com/jobs/90565/research-data-practices-lead/job"
postdate = "2022-05-19"
archivedate = "2022-07-01"
draft = "false"
+++
Within the Emory University Office of Information Technology (OIT) Research Solutions team, the Research Data Practices Lead enables the adoption of best practices for research data management and protection to support and advance Emory University’s mission. Working within the OIT Research Solutions team and in partnership with other IT groups and Emory’s research compliance teams, the position increases information, awareness and adoption of Research IT best practices and solutions among Emory’s faculty and trainees, through assessments, documentation, training and community building. The incumbent collaborates with Emory’s researchers, faculty, students, and staff to help advance discoveries in health sciences and other disciplines, improve the care of patients, and evolve the education of learners throughout the Emory community.

The Research Solutions team develops, manages and customizes IT solution sets and products for investigator-led, program-wide, and enterprise research endeavors. These solutions range in complexity, complies with different research data regulations, and serve the mission of Emory University. Examples include: (-) providing access and training to research data capture and visualization products; (-) implementing specimen tracking and processing workflows on Emory’s Enterprise laboratory information management system (LIMS); (-) supporting faculty and clinical coordinators in tracking subjects enrolled in Emory studies for Brain Health, Cancer and Transplant Research; (-) providing onboarding and consultation for the Emory’s secure Cloud platform. The team ensures that the implementation of solutions complies with architecture and security guidelines in use at Emory and with best practices in the field, and collaborates with other Emory IT groups to develop and apply standards and reusable components for new technological frameworks.

 The Research Data Practices Lead collaborates with other central IT teams such as Information Security, Enterprise Applications and Systems, Data Solutions, Middleware Operations, as well as Libraries, local school/unit staff to develop training courses for research data management and information security, questionnaires to assess research practices in schools and labs, and user-friendly documentation and toolkits to increase information, awareness and success with best practices and available solutions. In partnership with Emory’s research compliance teams, the position applies a particular emphasis on regulated research requirements, including research data management throughout its lifecycle, principles of information security, IP protection and regulatory compliance policies, FAIR scientific data principles and standards for knowledge dissemination and sharing. The position partners with senior and junior investigators and their teams to establish a community of practice to encourage peer-to-peer sharing of information and approaches and develops communication channels and activities to maximize outreach and feedback.

**JOB DESCRIPTION:**

- Leads efforts to ensure that informatics systems support and advance the objectives and mission of Emory University.
- Works directly with faculty and staff to document, analyze, and translate their needs into technical designs and informatics solutions.
- Utilizes standard software requirements and design practices to document informatics solutions to support a wide range of activities across the university.
- Applies biomedical informatics technical standards, methodologies, and principles to program needs, objectives, and outcomes.
- Manages, from a client business perspective, related systems projects.
- Ensures a high level of client satisfaction by monitoring the delivery of ongoing information systems to the enterprise.
- Performs related responsibilities as required.

**MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:**

- A bachelor's degree and five years of experience in information technology or an equivalent combination of education, training and experience which includes experience working within a health, research, or academic institution.
- Knowledge of data and information systems standards relevant to the field of biomedical informatics and health systems.

**PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS:**

- Experience or additional background in Informatics, Computer Science, Information Systems, Engineering, Information Security, or related field.
- Experience with standard practices in project management (PMI), service management (ITIL), and information security principles and practices to protect sensitive data.
- Technical experience in databases, data management, software development and deployment, storage.
- Background in basic or applied scientific research.
- Experience in managing one or more research data lifecycle steps: raw data acquisition from lab instruments, file transfer and storage, analysis, publication, archiving, etc.
- Experience with scientific data management plans, using FAIR guiding principles to make data Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Reusable, and related emerging standards for scientific data dissemination.
- Experience in program or consortium research, especially if involved in meeting guidelines or standards for data sharing and analysis

NOTE: Tasks related to this position can be performed remotely with only occasional supported visits to an Emory University location.  Emory reserves the right to change this status with notice to employee.