+++
title = "Instructional Technologist with Quantitative-Data Focus"
employer = "Denison University"
employerurl = "https://www.denison.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://employment.denison.edu/postings/4033"
postdate = "2022-12-10"
archivedate = "2022-12-22"
draft = "false"
+++

**Instructional Technologist with Quantitative-Data Focus**

Position Type: 		Administrative Staff

Classification Title: 	Administrative Staff

Position Title: 		Instructional Technologist with Quantitative-Data Focus

Position Number: 	A00465

Pay Grade Level: 		AD 01

Salary: 				Competitive based on education and experience.

Department: 			Information Technology Services

Posting Number: 		S 121301119

Full or Part Time: 	Full Time

Number of Months: 	12

FTE: 				40

Work Schedule: 	Exempt salaried position. Monday through Friday, 40 hours per week. Additional hours may include some weekends and/or holidays as needed for time-sensitive academic needs or emergency situations. Partial hybrid work options may be considered with a majority of the week on campus.

**Basic Function**
 	
Support technology adoption in coursework and scholarship in academic departments and programs, especially regarding the growing needs for storing, accessing, computing, and analyzing large data sets in various disciplines, by providing guidance and training to faculty, students, and staff on teaching/learning technologies while fostering their self-confidence and self-reliance.

**Essential Job Functions** 	

- Support coursework with large data sets while collaborating with other instructional technologists to organize training opportunities, create innovative solutions, and predict future needs.
- Develop and conduct in-class training and faculty sessions as well as hold office hours for individualized student and faculty consultations, especially for statistical applications, data computation/analysis, and supported software; lead academic efforts in data visualization and storytelling through data; research emerging data analytics technologies; advise on pros and cons of local vs. cloud data storage/computation; serve as the liaison between faculty and system administrators.
- Identify and communicate best practices for applying technology in the curriculum; collaborate with faculty on instructional design and course projects; ensure that faculty are aware of pedagogical applications of technology; properly support uses of technology through consulting services and training; research pedagogical challenges to identify the best technologies to aid learning and drive engagement.
- Create, update, and maintain clear written documentation and other materials, such as training outlines, tutorial videos, and websites, to support teaching and learning.
- Collaborate with supervisor, other instructional technologists, ITS staff, the Director of the Center for Learning and Teaching, and Library staff to provide direction, innovation, and support to faculty in the use of academic technology.
- Offer consulting and guidance to faculty regarding IT-related programs and services available to them on campus and through affiliated organizations (e.g., EDUCAUSE, ELI, Five Colleges of Ohio).
- Advocate for the instructional technology resources for faculty and academic staff.
- Identify current technology needs as well as future directions and trends. Stay well-informed on emerging technologies and remain engaged with faculty to seek partnership opportunities.
- Perform other duties as assigned.


**Minimum Qualifications** 	

**Required**

- Bachelor’s degree required. An equivalent combination of education, training and related experience may be considered for the educational requirement.
- Two or more years of experience in teaching with technology and curriculum development or equivalent experience in a non-education role.


**Key Attributes**

- Proficient quantitative and data skills, including understanding computational processes, analysis methods, and computer programming with drive to advance skills through employer-provided professional development opportunities. Solid background in Excel and data analysis tools.
- Broad academic technology skills with expertise in some of the following: Windows and Macintosh operating systems; Google Workspace for Education, MicroSoft Office; video conferencing; lecture/screen capture; multimedia creation/editing; website creation/editing; online mapping applications; learning management systems; learning space design; Universal Design for Learning; and eportfolio development. Familiarity with remote and hybrid technologies for teaching and learning.
- Demonstrated experience in developing instructional materials and media for a post-secondary academic audience.
- Team-oriented mindset along with excellent organizational and verbal/written communication skills; solid listening skills to strengthen trust and build relationships while collaborating with colleagues across disciplines; demonstrated competence to manage several projects simultaneously with attention to detail.
- Self-motivation with the ability to work independently with limited supervision and interact with diverse individuals and groups.
- Recognized excellence in responsive customer support, face-to-face and remotely, and in creatively solving ambiguous, complex problems.
- Supervisory skills, including ability and experience to mentor student assistants in their on-campus careers.


**Preferred Qualifications**	

- Master’s degree in instructional technology, instructional design, or a quantitative/data field and knowledge of adult learning theory. A background in social science or science is a plus as is experience in assessment.
- Five or more years of experience in teaching with technology and curriculum development.
- High level quantitative and data analysis skills.
- Extensive experience in many of the following: SPSS, Stata, RStudio; computer programming with SQL, R, and Python; database development; Unix/Linux operating systems; data visualization options, including data wall displays.
- Facility with Web authoring and client-scripting, including HTML, XML, CSS, and JavaScript; web standards and accessibility guidelines.
- Experience with course creation and administration tools within a learning management system and with content management tools (e.g., Drupal or WordPress).


**Physical Demands**	

Office environment which may include: sitting, standing, walking, lifting, carrying, reaching, pushing, and pulling. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable qualified individuals with disabilities to perform essential job functions.

**Denison University EEO Statement**	
To achieve our mission as a liberal arts college, we continually strive to attract and hire candidates with diverse backgrounds, experiences and identities. Denison fosters a campus community that recognizes the value of all persons regardless of age, disability, ethnicity, gender expression and identity, national origin, race, religion, sexual orientation, or socio-economic background. For additional information and resources about diversity at Denison, please view our commitment to inclusion, diversity, equity and antiracism (IDEA) at [https://denison.edu/campus/denison-forward](https://denison.edu/campus/denison-forward).

**Job Location**

Granville, OH
