+++
title = "Data Documentalist"
employer = "The London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine"
employerurl = "https://www.lshtm.ac.uk/"
moreinfourl = "https://jobs.lshtm.ac.uk/vacancy.aspx?ref=EPH-DPH-2022-22"
postdate = "2022-09-08"
archivedate = "2022-09-08"
draft = "false"
+++
**Data Documentalist - INSPIRE Network (East Africa - either Kenya, Tanzania or Malawi) (0.5 FTE)**

Department of Population Health
: Salary:  	£36,438 to £41,829 per annum, pro rata.
: Closing Date:  	Wednesday 21 September 2022
: Interview Date:  	Friday 30 September 2022

The London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine is a world-leading centre for research and postgraduate education in public and global health. Our mission is to improve health and health equity in the UK and worldwide; working in partnership to achieve excellence in public and global health research, education and translation of knowledge into policy and practice. 

We seek a Data Documentalist to work in the Department of Population Health (DPH) under the INSPIRE project.  The Department aims to increase global access to effective treatments and public health interventions, and is a centre of excellence in the measurement and analysis of global consequences of population change. The INSPIRE project is using data science in East Africa to build data hub for harmonisation and sharing of population health data.  

The successful Data Documentalist will work with data scientists in LSHTM and other institutions to develop harmonised data and metadata structures for standardised datasets. They would need to have a degree in computer science or information technology (IT) with a good understanding of metadata management programs, such as NesStar of Colectica.  The successful candidate will use these programs to create a library of metadata vocabularies, which will be used by data managers to build extraction, transformation and loading (ETL) programs for INSPIRE data. Further particulars are included in the job description.

The post is 0.5 FTE, 17.5 hours per week which is funded by Wellcome Trust until 31 March 2024, with the possibility for extension subject to funding. The expected starting date for the work is as soon as possible, but no later than 1st November 2022.   

The salary will be on the Professional Services salary scale Grade 5 in the range £36,438 - £41,829 per annum, pro rata. The post will be subject to the LSHTM terms and conditions of service. Annual leave entitlement is 30 working days per year, pro rata for part time staff. In addition to this there are discretionary “Wellbeing Days”. Membership of the Pension Scheme is available. The successful candidate will work in one of the INSPIRE partner institutions in either Kenya, Malawi or Tanzania. Applications are encouraged from these countries and other researchers from this region. Please note that as this post is based overseas, it will not be eligible for a UK visa.

Applications should be made on-line via our website at http://jobs.lshtm.ac.uk. Online applications will be accepted by the automated system until 10pm of the closing date. Any queries regarding the application process may be addressed to jobs@lshtm.ac.uk. 

The supporting statement section should set out how your qualifications, experience and training meet each of the selection criteria. Please provide one or more paragraphs addressing each criterion. The supporting statement is an essential part of the selection process and thus a failure to provide this information will mean that the application will not be considered. An answer to any of the criteria such as "Please see attached CV" will not be considered acceptable. 

Please note that if you are shortlisted and are unable to attend on the interview date it may not be possible to offer you an alternative date.