+++
title = "Data Impact Librarian"
employer = "ICPSR"
employerurl = "https://icpsr.umich.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.umich.edu/job_detail/225047/data-impact-librarian-leo-glam"
postdate = "2022-10-17"
archivedate = "2022-11-28"
draft = "false"
+++

**Data Impact Librarian**

The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR) is now accepting applications for a full-time faculty position at the rank of Senior Associate Librarian, as part of its Metadata & Preservation unit.

In this position, you will showcase the impact of secondary data by helping to grow, manage, and make use of the [ICPSR Bibliography of Data-related Literature](https://www.icpsr.umich.edu/web/pages/ICPSR/citations/). It is a unique collection of over 100,000 curated publication citations that link ICPSR study data to the citing literature. 

As the Data Impact Librarian, you will employ your bibliographic searching expertise, your database/collection management skills, and your ability to write content that highlights scholarly output for a general audience. You also will contribute your project management and supervisory experience. Some technical skills and a second master’s degree in the social sciences are highly desired. ICPSR is family-friendly, offering flexible work hours, and it has a diverse staff whose varied backgrounds and experience enrich the workplace. The position will be posted until November 1, 2022. Tentative start: January 2023. 

**Summary**

The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR), a unit of the Institute for Social Research (ISR) at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, Michigan is seeking a Data Impact Librarian to join ICPSR’s Metadata and Preservation unit at the rank of Senior Associate Librarian.

ICPSR maintains a large archive of empirical social science data for research and instruction; its holdings encompass over 14,000 individual data collections (studies), covering a broad range of social science disciplines. These original research data were shared and archived at ICPSR by researchers and funding agencies so that other researchers may download and reuse the data.

To augment its data collections, ICPSR also maintains the ICPSR Bibliography of Data-related Literature, a continually growing, searchable database of over 104,000 curated publication citations that link ICPSR study data to the citing literature. Originally funded by the National Science Foundation, the ICPSR Bibliography is a unique, freely available resource for students, researchers, instructors, librarians, and others who want to find and read the literature in which research data were analyzed. The Data Impact Librarian will innovate to continue the expansion of the ICPSR Bibliography and participate in the project’s future development.

This full-time, permanent faculty appointment is subject to the UM/LEO-GLAM collective bargaining agreement.

**Responsibilities**

The Data Impact Librarian will report to a Lead Librarian and will focus on five areas:

- Bibliographic Searching, Database Population, and Linking to ICPSR Studies (50%)
  - Use search strategies in scholarly sources to find data-related publications for selected portions of the ICPSR catalog of studies. Populate database according to collection criteria. Curate records to include accurate linkages to ICPSR studies.

- Instructional Resource Creation and Community Outreach (20%)
  - Make use of the Bibliography’s large database of data-linked literature to create instructional and other resources for ICPSR’s site visitors. Contribute to the library or digital archiving professions, whether through committee work, research, writing, publishing, or other activity, to raise awareness of the ICPSR Bibliography or contribute to a scholarly community organized around directly related issues, e.g., data citation.

- Query Alert Management and API Integration (10%)
  - Set and track email query alerts in bibliographic databases on publisher platforms. Use Jupyter Notebook to manage and modify existing publisher API queries and create new ones. Assist with integration of API results into Bibliography team workflow.

- Project Management (10%)
  - Actively collaborate across units, including IT and UX, with Lead Librarian on Bibliography projects, in order to improve internal and external design and functionality of the Bibliography tools. Develop skills to have eventual oversight of the Bibliography project.

- Staff Supervision (10%)
  - Assist with functional supervision of Bibliography staff work, including record editing and quality checking data linkages; train for eventual administrative oversight of Bibliography staff according to priorities that include diversity, equity, and inclusion.


**Required Qualifications**

(Senior Associate Librarian rank)

- ALA accredited master's degree in library or information science, or equivalent combination of a relevant advanced degree and experience.
- 5 or more years of experience in an academic setting conducting bibliographic research in the social or behavioral health sciences, with demonstrated expertise in constructing queries in scholarly literature databases and in authoritative Internet sources.
- 3 or more years of administrative and/or functional supervisory experience.
- 3 or more years of experience managing complex, ongoing project(s) in which cross-unit coordination has taken place.
- Excellent writing skills, especially in scholarly literature summarization or review.
- Highly-focused, organized, and detail-oriented.
- A strong understanding of the value of diversity and the importance of inclusion.

(Associate Librarian rank)

- ALA accredited master's degree in library or information science, or equivalent combination of a relevant advanced degree and experience.
- 3 or more years of experience in an academic setting conducting bibliographic research in the social or behavioral health sciences, with demonstrated expertise in constructing queries in scholarly literature databases and in authoritative Internet sources.
- 2 or more years of administrative and/or functional supervisory experience.
- 2 or more years of experience managing complex, ongoing project(s).
- Excellent writing skills, especially in scholarly literature summarization or review.
- Highly-focused, organized, and detail-oriented.
- A strong understanding of the value of diversity and the importance of inclusion.


**Desired Qualifications**

(Senior Associate Librarian rank)

- A second advanced degree in one of the social or behavioral health sciences.
- Experience using SQL and Python.
- Experience using XML or JSON.
- Experience interacting with one or more publisher platform's API web services.
- Working knowledge of citation management software.
- Working knowledge of Jupyter Notebook.
- Working knowledge of Google Analytics (GA4).

(Associate Librarian rank)

- A second advanced degree in one of the social or behavioral health sciences.
- Experience using SQL and Python.
- Experience using XML or JSON.
- Working knowledge of citation management software.

Finalist candidates may be asked to prepare a writing sample.

**Work Locations**

This position may be eligible for remote and/or flexible work opportunities at the discretion of the hiring department. Flexible work agreements are reviewed annually and are subject to change dependent on the business needs of the hiring department, throughout the course of employment. If relocation is required, we will allow for reasonable time and flexibility to make necessary arrangements.

**Underfill Statement**

This position may be filled at the Senior Associate Librarian level. Less-experienced candidates will be reviewed at the Associate Librarian level. The salary range is between $68,000 and $78,000. The minimum requirements for candidates at the Senior Associate Librarian rank and at the Associate Librarian rank are represented in the Required Qualifications. The selection criteria used will be based on how well candidates meet the Required and Desired qualifications for one or the other position.

**Additional Information**

Institute for Social Research job openings are posted for a minimum of fourteen (14) calendar days. This opening may be removed from posting boards and filled any time after the minimum posting period has ended. Applications will be reviewed as received throughout the posting period and continue until the position is filled.

The Institute for Social Research at the University of Michigan seeks to recruit and retain a diverse workforce as a reflection of our commitment to serve the diverse people of Michigan, to maintain the excellence of the university, and to ground our research in varied disciplines, perspectives, and ways of knowing and learning.

**Benefits At The University Of Michigan**

In addition to a career filled with purpose and opportunity, The University of Michigan offers a comprehensive benefits package to help you stay well, protect yourself and any eligible family members, and plan for a secure future. Benefits include:

- Generous time off
- A retirement plan that provides two-for-one matching contributions with immediate vesting upon meeting eligibility requirements
- Many choices for comprehensive health insurance
- Life, dental, and vision insurance
- Long-term disability coverage
- Flexible spending accounts for healthcare and dependent care expenses
- Access to multiple learning resources

[Learn More About U-M Benefits](https://hr.umich.edu/benefits-wellness)

**Background Screening**

The University of Michigan conducts background checks on all job candidates upon acceptance of a contingent offer and may use a third-party administrator to conduct background checks. Background checks are performed in compliance with the Fair Credit Reporting Act.

**U-M EEO/AA Statement**

The University of Michigan is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.


**Job Location**

Ann Arbor, MI
