+++
title = "Librarian for Global Affairs and International Government Information & Policy"
employer = "Yale University"
employerurl = "https://yale.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://bit.ly/YaleCareers-74160BR"
postdate = "2022-06-10"
archivedate = "2022-07-01"
draft = "false"
+++
Marx Science and Social Science Library at Yale University is re-envisioning library activities around political science, global affairs, government information, and policy studies through a team-based approach. Initiatives such as the Yale Data-Intensive Social Science Strategy and the creation of the Yale Jackson School of Global Affairs, offer significant opportunities for outreach and engagement in these areas. We seek applicants who are user-centered, adaptable, and creative for the positions of Librarian for Political Science and US Government Information & Policy and Librarian for Global Affairs and International Government Information & Policy. These two positions will collaborate with other subject specialist librarians, and each will have their own assigned academic departments and programs. They will also work together to lead Yale University Library’s expertise in government information and policy studies across disciplines through all stages of the research lifecycle.

The anticipated salary range for each position is $66,000-$85,000 at the rank of Librarian 2 or Librarian 3.  Priority will be given to applications received by Tuesday, July 5, 2022.

**Position Focus:**

Marx Science and Social Science Library is re-envisioning library activities around political science, global affairs, government information, and policy studies through a team-based approach. Initiatives such as the Yale Data-Intensive Social Science Strategy and the creation of the Yale Jackson School of Global Affairs offer significant opportunities for outreach and engagement. We seek applicants who are user-centered, adaptable, and creative for the positions of Librarian for Political Science and US Government Information & Policy and Librarian for Global Affairs and International Government Information & Policy.

The Librarian will be primarily responsible for: 

- Providing research support for professional school students, faculty, and staff of the Yale Jackson School for Global Affairs, as well as those in the undergraduate Global Affairs major and the Program in Ethnicity, Race, and Migration (ER&M)
- Providing research support for centers, institutes, and programs related to the Jackson School and ER&M, such as the Center for the Study of Race, Indigeneity, and Transnational Migration (RITM) and the World Fellows Program
- Managing Yale University Library’s participation in international government and intergovernmental organization (IGO) documents depository programs, including - Canadian, United Nations, European Union, and the Food & Agriculture Organization

The Librarian will also work with the Librarian for Political Science and US Government Information & Policy to:

- Collaborate with librarians, GIS specialists, archivists, and other library staff to support research and teaching around government information, data, and policy information
- Build and maintain relationships with appropriate staff at Yale’s Lillian Goldman Law Library to bridge user needs and share expertise between law, government information, and policy
- Provide awareness and opportunities for other Yale University Library staff to incorporate government information, data, and policy information into their existing work
- Administer the Harvey M. Applebaum ’59 Award – a library award for the senior essay with best use of government information
- Advise on long-term strategy and assist in implementation around community programming and outreach such as Constitution Day, United Nations Day, and similar events

For the assigned subject areas and for activities more broadly related to international government/IGO information and policy studies, the Librarian will conduct research consultations; offer curriculum-integrated instruction and workshops; support the discovery, use, and management of text and data; raise awareness of resources and services through outreach efforts such as department-based office hours; and create and maintain research guides and other research support tools.

Working with Marx Library’s Director of Collection Management, Technical Services, Access Services, and Technology, the Librarian facilitates access to Yale’s collections through selecting, reviewing, advocating for, and promoting a variety of resources in support of global affairs, international policy studies, and related areas. The Librarian will participate in collection development activities, including managing collections funds, evaluating approval plans, and maintaining collection development statements in assigned subject areas. 

The Librarian participates in outreach and research support/instruction program planning and implementation for Marx Library; participates in Yale Library planning, committees, and task forces; and engages in campus, regional, and national organizations. The Librarian is expected to participate in professional activities outside of Yale and to monitor developments and best practices elsewhere to help ensure the excellence of Yale’s research support activities and collections.

The Librarian will be assigned a rank of Librarian 2 or 3.

**Essential Duties**

1. Provides research support to students and faculty in academic departments, schools, and research centers through consultations, instruction sessions, and in-person and virtual reference services. Supports research and raises awareness of information resources through outreach efforts such as department-based office hours, blogs, RSS feeds, mailing list messages, and workshops. 
2. Creates and maintains online guides and other research support tools. Collaborates with librarians, GIS specialists, archivists and other providers of information resources to support research and teaching. 
3. Develops library collections in all formats. Works closely with the Director of Collection Development, collection, acquisitions and cataloging librarians, and staff on acquiring and receiving resources in all formats (print, databases, datasets, images, a/v, etc.) and preparing them for availability to users. 
4. Participates in departmental library research support and collections program planning. 
5. Participates in library system-wide planning, committees, and work groups, and engages in campus, regional and national professional organizations and collaborative activities. Monitors developments and best practices elsewhere to help ensure the excellence of Yale's collections and research support services. 
6. May be required to assist with disaster recovery efforts. 
7. May perform other duties as assigned.

Required Education and Experience

1. Masters degree from an ALA-accredited library school. In selected instances, a post-graduate degree in a related discipline may be required or substituted for a masters degree in library science. 
2. Demonstrated excellent oral, written, and interpersonal communications and analytical ability. 3. Demonstrated record of designing projects and bringing them to a conclusion in a timely fashion. 
4. Experience working collegially and cooperatively within and across organizations. 
5. Experience working collaboratively and independently with varied groups within a complex organization and rapidly changing, team environment. Yale University assigns ranks to librarian positions based on a combination of professional experience and accomplishments (see range assigned to this description as noted in the posting position title). Librarian ranking information can be found at: http://www.library.yale.edu/about/departments/lhr/rank.html

Required Skill/Ability 1:

Minimum of two years professional experience.

Required Skill/Ability 2:

Demonstrated ability to provide high quality, user-centered services, preferably in an academic library setting.

Required Skill/Ability 3:

Demonstrated ability to identify, search, and instruct researchers in the use of international government/IGO information, policy information, and social science electronic resources.

Required Skill/Ability 4:

Demonstrated ability to find and use government-generated data to support interdisciplinary research.

Required Skill/Ability 5:

Commitment to an inclusive workplace. Ability to engage with diverse audiences (age, gender, nationality, race/ethnicity, profession, sexual orientation, etc.).

**Preferred Education, Experience and Skills:**

Undergraduate and/or advanced degree in global affairs or a closely related discipline. Experience with collection development in an academic environment. Experience with quantitative data analysis, data visualization, or geographic information system (GIS) resources and tools. Limited working proficiency or better in a second language.

University policy is committed to affirmative action under law in employment of women, minority group members, individuals with disabilities, and protected veterans. Additionally, in accordance with Yale’s Policy Against Discrimination and Harassment, and as delineated by federal and Connecticut law, Yale does not discriminate in admissions, educational programs, or employment against any individual on account of that individual’s sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, race, color, national or ethnic origin, religion, age, disability, status as a special disabled veteran, veteran of the Vietnam era or other covered veteran.