+++
title = "Research IT Director"
employer = "Cornell Center for Social Sciences"
employerurl = "https://cornell.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://cornell.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/CornellCareerPage/job/Ithaca-Main-Campus/Research-IT-Director_WDR-00030198"
postdate = "2022-03-08"
archivedate = "2022-06-01"
draft = "false"
+++
JOB TITLE: Research IT Director
: INSTITUTION: Cornell Center for Social Sciences (CCSS)
: LOCATION: Ithaca, New York

Cornell University has a unique opportunity for an experienced mission-driven IT leader to serve as the Research IT Director for the Cornell Center for Social Sciences (CCSS). CCSS accelerates, enhances, and amplifies social science research at Cornell. The CCSS accomplishes these goals by providing Cornell social scientists with advanced computing and data infrastructure, quantitative and qualitative research training and consulting, and internal and external grant support and fellowships.

This position serves on the CCSS leadership team and will be responsible for leading CCSS’s advanced computing infrastructure and services. To provide advanced computing to social scientists across Cornell, CCSS works closely with Cornell Advanced Computing (CAC) who provides cloud and high-performance computational resources for Cornell researchers. The Research IT Director will work with CAC to ensure advanced computing resources meet social science research needs, including computationally intensive projects, data storage and access needs, optimizing processing time and workflows, and minimizing risk. The Research IT Director will also develop solutions to any unmet and/or emerging research needs. These solutions could include commercial cloud services, partnerships with nonprofit organizations or other universities, developing additional local solutions, other options, or a combination of strategies.

The Research IT Director will also oversee Cornell’s Restricted Access Data Center (CRADC), ensuring that CRADC continues to offer state-of-the-art secure data options for Cornell social scientists. CCSS also manages Cornell’s Federal Statistical Research Data Center (FSRDC). CRADC offers a similar secure environment for non-federal data. The director will collaborate with Cornell’s general efforts to provide restricted data services in support of research.

This position will also oversee a team of staff and PhD students that support faculty and students who use CCSS advanced computing and secure data services. This team offers one-on-one consulting with researchers to ensure efficient access to and use of advanced computing and secure data options as well as workshops on best practices related to high-performance computing, secure data environments, coding efficiently to improve process workflows, and related topics.

In all our work, CCSS leadership ensures a positive culture that is deeply committed to inclusion, diversity, and investment in core and student staff by providing training and opportunities for professional development and growth, fostering a sense of connectedness on the campus.

**Required Qualifications**

- Bachelor’s degree, preferably but not necessarily in a computer science or related field, with 5 – 7 years related experience or equivalent combination
- Excellent interpersonal communication skills and demonstrated ability to communicate with, identify the needs of, and build working relationships with administration, faculty, and staff across all research disciplines, but particularly the social sciences.
- Thinks analytically and logically in solving business problems. Ability to help establish realistic goals and deliver work on schedule.
- Advanced knowledge of cloud computing, high performance computing, cybersecurity and data security, and data storage and backup.
- Familiarity with open-source software and computer solutions.
- Strong organizational and people management skills and ability to establish training and development goals and objectives through directing and developing staff members.
- Demonstrated success with service management.
- Understands and values diversity and the importance of inclusion as demonstrated through a commitment to apply and incorporate the differences, complexities, and opportunities that diversity brings to an organization and ability to work with a dynamic diverse faculty, staff and students.

Visa sponsorship not available for this position.

University Job Title: Info Tech Asst Dir I
: Job Family: Information Technology
: Level: G
: Pay Rate Type: Salary
: Company: Endowed
: Number Of Openings: 1

**Job Titles And Pay Ranges**

To learn more about Cornell’s non-union staff job titles and pay ranges, see Career Navigator. The final rate of pay for the successful candidate will be determined considering the following criteria:

- Prior relevant work or industry experience.
- Education level to the extent education is relevant to the position.
- Unique applicable skills.

**EEO Statement**

Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell University’s heritage. We are a recognized employer and educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans and Individuals with Disabilities. We also recognize a lawful preference in employment practices for Native Americans living on or near Indian reservations. Cornell University is an innovative Ivy League university and a great place to work. Our inclusive community of scholars, students, and staff impart an uncommon sense of larger purpose, and contribute creative ideas to further the university's mission of teaching, discovery, and engagement.

Cornell University is an innovative Ivy League university and a great place to work. Our inclusive community of scholars, students and staff impart an uncommon sense of larger purpose and contribute creative ideas to further the university's mission of teaching, discovery and engagement. With our main campus located in Ithaca, NY, Cornell's far-flung global presence includes the medical college's campuses on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and Doha, Qatar, as well as the Cornell Tech campus located on Roosevelt Island in the heart of New York City. We offer a rich array of services, programs and benefits to help employees advance in their career and enhance the quality of personal life, including employee wellness, workshops, childcare and adoption assistance, parental leave and flexible work options.