+++
title = "Postdoctoral Scholar in Data Ethics and Research Openness"
employer = "Qualitative Data Repository"
employerurl = "https://qdr.syr.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://www.sujobopps.com/postings/90068"
postdate = "2022-10-17"
archivedate = "2022-11-28"
draft = "false"
+++

**Postdoctoral Scholar in Data Ethics and Research Openness**

We re-opened our search for a QDR postdoc, this time more aligned with the academic job cycle. Moreover, we were able to convince Syracuse University to allows us to hire remotely for this position, which will hopefully make it more attractive to a diverse group of candidates.

We are very excited that, for the first time, the Qualitative Data Repository (QDR, qdr.syr.edu) is in a position to hire a postdoctoral fellow. We are looking for someone to work with us for two years on a broad range of topics related to sharing qualitative data and making qualitative and multi-method research transparent. The position is open to researchers in the social sciences, broadly construed, as well as the information sciences. More than a specific disciplinary profile, we are looking for someone passionate in advancing research about open science and related questions.

This would be a great position for anyone with a recent LIS PhD or wanting to work in a LIS-adjacent position with a recent social science PhD. Please feel free to pass this along to anyone who might be interested in your networks or post on social media. Please note that, different from previous postings, this position no longer requires the postdoc to be in residence at Syracuse University.


Job # 	076183

Job Title 	Postdoctoral Scholar in Data Ethics and Research Openness

Location 	Syracuse, NY

Pay Range 	$50,500 with standard benefit

FLSA Status 	Exempt

Hours 	As determined by supervisor.

Job Type 	Full-time

Rank 	Post Doc

Campus 	Syracuse, NY

Unionized Position Code 	Not Applicable

**Job Description** 	

The Qualitative Data Repository (QDR), hosted by the Moynihan Institute of Global Affairs in the Maxwell School at Syracuse University, invites applications for a two-year position, “Postdoctoral Scholar in Data Ethics and Research Openness”, to begin in or after January 2023.
QDR is an open repository dedicated to the curation, preservation, and publication of data generated through qualitative and multi-method research. Funded by the National Science Foundation, various private funders, and Syracuse University, QDR is active in many disciplines in the social, behavioral, health, and education sciences. It is one of a few social science domain repositories in the United States to be certified by CoreTrustSeal as a “trusted data repository.” QDR’s primary missions are encouraging and empowering individual scholars and research teams to share their qualitative data; building infrastructure to enhance the openness of qualitative research; and fomenting institutional change to advance the sharing of qualitative research data.
The Postdoctoral Scholar will be fully integrated into the intellectual life of the repository. As a core part of the QDR team, the Postdoctoral Scholar will be invited to help envision, organize, and participate in workshops and other events related to QDR’s ongoing research projects; and to contribute to presentations on project activities in various professional venues. These activities will expand the Postdoctoral Scholar’s professional network and raise their profile in relevant fields. The Postdoctoral Scholar will also be integrated into QDR’s ongoing fundraising activities, and will gain experience researching, preparing, and submitting initial and final grant proposals to a range of funders. The Postdoctoral Scholar will also be invited to contribute to publications related to their activities as appropriate, bolstering their body of scholarly work. More generally, the Postdoctoral Scholar will support QDR’s multi-faceted sustainability initiatives and its emerging revenue streams relating to annotating and verifying research, working with sensitive research data, and teaching with data.
QDR has a strong track record of mentoring junior scholars and is committed to helping prepare the Postdoctoral Scholar for the next stage of their career. The Postdoctoral Scholar’s mentoring team will include QDR’s Director and Associate Director.

**Qualifications**	

Applicants should have a Ph.D. in information science, a social science, or another relevant discipline in hand by the time of appointment, or verifiable plans for completing all requirements for the degree by the month in which they begin the position. They should also have some knowledge of and experience with data ethics, human participant protection, and/or the use of data in research transparency, reproducibility, and pedagogy.

**Job Specific Qualifications** 	

- A strong background in information science and/or social science
- A strong interest in qualitative data and research methods, open science, and research evaluation
- A research program focused on data ethics, human participant protection, sensitive data, and/or the use of data in research transparency, reproducibility, and pedagogy
- Proven record of securing grants/funding for research
- Experience working productively as part of a diverse team in a fast-paced environment
- Excellent verbal and written communication skills
- This is a hybrid position, eligible to work remotely and work on-site in the office at Syracuse University

**Responsibilities** 	

- Engage in research on data ethics, human participant protection, sensitive data – 20%
- Engage in research on transparency, reproducibility, and verification – 20%
- Engage in research on teaching with data – 20%
- Develop proposals and securing grants funding for related research — 10%
- Contribute to developing research and strategic partnerships – 10%
- Contribute to publications drawing on research – 10%
- Engage in activities that support the general mission of QDR – 10%

**About Syracuse University** 	

Syracuse University is a private, international research university with distinctive academics, diversely unique offerings and an undeniable spirit. Located in the geographic heart of New York State, with a global footprint, and nearly 150 years of history, Syracuse University offers a quintessential college experience.

The scope of Syracuse University is a testament to its strengths: a pioneering history dating back to 1870; a choice of more than 200 majors and 100 minors offered through 13 schools and colleges; nearly 15,000 undergraduates and 5,000 graduate students; more than a quarter of a million alumni in 160 countries; and a student population from all 50 U.S. states and 123 countries. For more information, please visit www.syracuse.edu.

**About the Syracuse area**	

Syracuse is a medium-sized city situated in the geographic center of New York State approximately 250 miles northwest of New York City. The metro-area population totals approximately 500,000. The area offers a low cost of living and provides many social, cultural, and recreational options, including parks, museums, festivals, professional regional theater, and premier shopping venues. Syracuse and Central New York present a wide range of seasonal recreation and attractions ranging from water skiing and snow skiing, hiking in the Adirondacks, touring the historic sites, visiting wineries along the Finger Lakes, and biking on trails along the Erie Canal.

**EEO Statement** 	

Syracuse University is an equal-opportunity, affirmative-action institution. The University prohibits discrimination and harassment based on race, color, creed, religion, sex, gender, national origin, citizenship, ethnicity, marital status, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression, veteran status, or any other status protected by applicable law to the extent prohibited by law. This nondiscrimination policy covers admissions, employment, and access to and treatment in University programs, services, and activities.

**Commitment to Supporting and Hiring Veterans**	

Syracuse University has a long history of engaging veterans and the military-connected community through its educational programs, community outreach, and employment programs. After World War II, Syracuse University welcomed more than 10,000 returning veterans to our campus, and those veterans literally transformed Syracuse University into the national research institution it is today. The University’s contemporary commitment to veterans builds on this historical legacy, and extends to both class-leading initiatives focused on making an SU degree accessible and affordable to the post-9/11 generation of veterans, and also programs designed to position Syracuse University as the employer of choice for military veterans, members of the Guard and Reserve, and military family members.

**Commitment to a Diverse and Inclusive Campus Community** 	

Syracuse University maintains an inclusive learning environment in which students, faculty, administrators, staff, curriculum, social activities, governance, and all other aspects of campus life reflect a diverse, multi-cultural, and international worldview. The University community recognizes and values the many similarities and differences among individuals and groups. At Syracuse, we are committed to preparing students to understand, live among, appreciate, and work in an inherently diverse country and world made up of people with different ethnic and racial backgrounds, military backgrounds, religious beliefs, socio-economic status, cultural traditions, abilities, sexual orientations and gender identities. To do so, we commit ourselves to promoting a community that celebrates and models the principles of diversity and inclusivity.

Job Category: 	Faculty

**Job Location**

Syracuse, NY
