+++
title = "Metadata & Taxonomy Specialist"
employer = "Harvard Business School"
employerurl = "https://www.hbs.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://sjobs.brassring.com/TGnewUI/Search/home/HomeWithPreLoad?partnerid=25240&siteid=5341&PageType=JobDetails&jobid=1958302"
postdate = "2022-07-22"
archivedate = "2022-08-22"
draft = "false"
+++
Are you excited about the idea of joining a world-class organization at the intersection of higher education and business? Are you drawn to organizations in the midst of digital transformation? If so, join us in the delivery of our mission to educate leaders who make a difference in the world in an adaptive and collaborative environment. Knowledge and Library Services (KLS) at Harvard Business School (HBS) is one of the leading academic business libraries in the world. Its innovative programs provide the expertise and resources that faculty, students, alumni, and visiting scholars depend on in order to create, share, discover, use and disseminate knowledge. Check out some of our services for the HBS Community, explore our exhibits, or just browse the library website at https://www.library.hbs.edu/

**Specific duties include:**

- Support the faculty Research Information System (RIS) by developing, maintaining and reviewing metadata and controlled vocabularies.
- Support new KLS and HBS information products and systems through the maintenance of branches or entire vocabularies of common and proper nouns in taxonomy and metadata modeling tool suite
- Analyze and map vocabularies and/or metadata schema across products Define and document vocabulary concepts
- Quality assurance test vocabulary and metadata structures, apply content logic, and link-check
- Develop and use product-specific vocabularies to tag content for information products Use multiple tools and platforms to produce information products
- Update internal Information Management workflows
- Complete data entry into Information Management tools and systems
- Update catalog records in RIS and other HBS systems General administration of Information Management services
- Responsible for other duties as assigned.

Working Relationships: Works closely with the other members of the Information Management Team, with members of the Division of Faculty Research and Development, with the KLS Information Products Team, and with other members of Knowledge and Library Services as necessary.

This is a Part-time position

**Basic Qualifications**

- High school diploma, GED, or equivalent required
- Five or more years of library or directly related and progressively responsible experience required.
- Education beyond high school may count toward experience.

**Additional Qualifications and Skills**

- BA/BS in a relevant area such as library studies, information science, language studies, computer science preferred.
- Exceptional attention to detail and excellent analytical and critical thinking skills. Flexible, adaptable, curious and willing to learn.
- Interested in content tagging, data accuracy, content management.
- Customer service orientation.
- Experience in the use of common office tools for collaboration, information analysis, modeling, management, and presentation (ex: Microsoft Suite – Teams, Access, Excel, Outlook, OneNote, PowerPoint, Word).
- Familiarity with library cataloging and information management standards (RDA, BIBFRAME, Dublin Core) and principles is desired.
- Excellent organizational skills and ability to remain focused, work independently as well as within a team environment.
- Demonstrated proficiency at completing tasks in a timely manner and a willingness to ask questions and suggest process improvements.
- Motivated learner with a commitment to taking initiative in an evolving and collaborative environment to produce timely, high quality results. Information management / content management, taxonomy, or metadata work experience.

Please note:

- Interviewed candidates will be asked to share a sample of their work, and candidates who advance to the second round will be asked to complete a couple of brief exercises.
- A cover letter is required to be considered for this opportunity.
- This is a part-time role

Our expectations are that employees of HBS adhere to and represent our Community Values. They are:

- Respect for the rights, differences, and dignity of others
- Honesty and integrity in dealing with all members of the community
- Accountability for personal behavior

**Additional Information**

This role is offered as a hybrid (some combination of onsite and remote) where you are required to be onsite and remote at our Boston, MA-based campus. Specific days and schedule will be determined between you and your manager.

- A cover letter is required to be considered for this opportunity.

While we continue to monitor the evolving COVID-19 guidelines and restrictions, we appreciate your understanding and flexibility with our interview process. Please note that we will be conducting interviews virtually (phone and or Zoom) for selected candidates until further notice.

The University requires all Harvard community members to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and remain up to date with COVID-19 vaccine boosters, as detailed in Harvard’s Vaccine & Booster Requirements. Individuals may claim exemption from the vaccine requirement for medical or religious reasons. More information regarding the University’s COVID vaccination requirement, exemptions, and verification of vaccination status may be found at the University’s “COVID-19 Vaccine Information” webpage: http://www.harvard.edu/coronavirus/covid-19-vaccine-information/.

Harvard Business School will not offer visa sponsorship for this opportunity.

Culture of Inclusion: The work and well-being of HBS is profoundly strengthened by the diversity of our network and our differences in background, culture, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, and life experiences. Explore more about HBS work culture here https://www.hbs.edu/employment.