+++
title = "Research Information Management Librarian"
employer = "Indiana University, IUPUI"
employerurl = "https://www.iupui.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://ulib.iupui.edu/employment/research-information"
postdate = "2022-07-20"
archivedate = "2022-08-22"
draft = "false"
+++
Research information management (RIM) workflows at universities are increasingly intersecting with library workflows, particularly regarding data management, funder compliance, and preservation of the institution’s scholarly record.

IUPUI University Library is seeking a tenure-track Research Information Management Librarian with an interest in leading the library’s efforts in aggregating, curating, and openly sharing metadata about IUPUI’s research activities in order to support research assessment, strategic planning, and reuse. The successful candidate will support researchers and administrators in using current RIM data, including research impact metrics, for evaluation and review purposes. As tenure-track, this position includes expectations of professional development, creative activity, and service. The anticipated start date is October 3, 2022.

As the state’s premier urban research institution, IUPUI is committed to being a welcoming campus community that reflects and enacts the values of diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility that inform academic excellence. We seek candidates who will not only enhance our representational diversity but whose research, teaching, and community engagement efforts contribute to diverse, equitable, and inclusive learning and working environments for our students, staff, and faculty. IUPUI condemns racism in all its forms and has taken an anti-racist stance that moves beyond mere statements to interrogating its policies, procedures, and practices. We hope to identify individuals who will assist in our mission to dismantle racism so that everyone has the opportunity to succeed at IUPUI.

**The Successful Candidate**

The Research Information Management Librarian reports to the Director of the IUPUI University Library Center for Digital Scholarship. The successful candidate will be someone interested in collaborating with others, flexible in their approach to solving problems, and with a desire to learn. There are multiple paths toward success in this position and each may look slightly different depending on the successful candidate’s interests and experience. University Library is especially interested in promoting an environment of diversity and excellence throughout the institution and encourages candidates who are committed to fostering diverse and inclusive environments.

**Responsibilities**

Develop relationships within the library and across campus to contribute to open research information management systems and services
Lead ORCID implementation/adoption at IUPUI for student and faculty researchers
Contribute to the UL Research Metrics Team workshops and consultations
Work toward establishing an authoritative and open record of scholarship produced by IUPUI faculty, staff, and students
Provide training on RIM data, systems, and services to users within the Library and across the campus

**Qualifications**

Required

- Graduate degree from an ALA accredited program or an equivalent graduate library science/information studies degree
- Experience with research information management systems (RIMS)
- Broad knowledge of scholarly communication issues within higher education
- Experience collaborating with faculty and other campus stakeholders
- Excellent oral and written communication skills
- Demonstrated ability to work collaboratively in a small team to solve emerging and sometimes ambiguous problems
- Commitment to open knowledge, open access, or open research practices

Preferred

- Experience working with metadata from scholarly publishers
- Experience with bibliometric methods and resources for evaluating research impact and productivity
- Experience working with APIs and various data formats, including JSON and CSV
- Experience with one or more programming languages, such as Python or R

**About IUPUI and University Library**

IUPUI, an urban-serving institution with a mission and a vision focused on both diversity and community engagement, has been the recipient of the prestigious Higher Education Excellence in Diversity (HEED) award from Insight Into Diversity (the nation’s oldest higher education diversity publication) for ten consecutive years. Home to three Library Journal Movers and Shakers, the University Library is looking for librarians who will support our commitment to engage with the wider educational community through performance, professional development and service that are inclusive of the rich diversity of our campus and our city.

Ranked by Forbes Magazine as 4th among Employers for Diversity in Indiana, and 3rd Best Employer for Women in the Country among universities, IUPUI is an urban research and health sciences campus with 17 schools and 550 academic programs. Located in downtown Indianapolis, a multicultural and affordable mid-sized city, the campus serves more than 27,000 students annually, 29% of whom identify as ethnic minority students and 7% of whom are international students.

**About the Center for Digital Scholarship**

The IUPUI University Library Center for Digital Scholarship is a unit in the library with three librarians, three staff members, and two student workers. This unit is under the purview of the Senior Associate Dean for Scholarly Communication and Content Strategies. The Center is a highly collaborative and motivated group of individuals who are focused on changing IUPUI’s culture to adopt more open access knowledge practices through a variety of initiatives, services, and advocacy work.

**Compensation and Application**

Minimum salary is $50,000, with additional funding for professional development and travel. Benefits include 22 vacation days, 10 paid holidays, health/dental insurance options, and retirement contributions of 10% to a Fidelity Investments retirement plan.

Deadline for applications is July 31, 2022 The position is available no sooner than October 3, 2022. Please include a CV, contact information for four references (include name, title, telephone number, and e-mail address) and a letter of application discussing your ability to contribute to the responsibilities outlined above and the strengths you will bring to the position.

Interested candidates should review the application requirements and submit their application at https://indiana.peopleadmin.com/postings/13166.