+++
title = "Data and Digital Scholarship Librarian"
employer = "Reed College"
employerurl = "https://www.reed.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://jobs.reed.edu/positions/2023/librarian-data-and-digital-scholarship.html"
postdate = "2023-06-10"
archivedate = "2023-06-28"
draft = "false"
+++

**Data and Digital Scholarship Librarian**

Reed College seeks a collaborative and student-oriented librarian to provide leadership with research data services and support in digital initiatives. In this position, you will work closely with students, faculty, and library staff to provide in-depth data support, from introductory courses to the required senior thesis. This is a dynamic and established research data role at Reed with the additional opportunity to identify strategic digital initiatives development in areas such as scholarly communication, institutional repositories, and open educational resources. This position is one of 5 liaison librarians in the Research Services department, a team of highly collaborative colleagues focused on outreach and instruction.

This is a full-time, 12-month, exempt position reporting to the Director of Research Services. Reed College offers an exceptional benefits package that includes medical and dental insurance, 403(b) retirement plan with 10% employer contribution (after one year), educational assistance for employees and their children, 22 days paid vacation, paid holidays, half-day Fridays in the summer and many other campus amenities, such as membership to the campus fitness center for employee and spouse. The library supports professional development and provides reimbursement for some relocation expenses. 

The starting salary range for this position is $68,000 - $71,000. Salary offers are dependent on experience and are determined in conjunction with an internal pay equity assessment.

**Who You Are**

- You are experienced in working with research data, including supporting the discovery, use, and management of locally created and externally available data.
- You have demonstrated experience with data curation best practices, including retrieval, preservation, and metadata standards.
- You have experience educating the community about data privacy, ethical use of data, and making resources accessible to all users. 
- You are interested in collaborating with campus partners on research data management plans, funding agency requirements related to research data, and providing guidance on such requirements.
- You stay current on digital initiatives around the intersection of scholarship and digital services and are excited about developing strategies of implementation around them.
- You have experience in teaching using instructional design, lesson planning, and assessment practices.
- You are committed to user-centered library services and excited to work with an active community of undergraduate scholars.
- You advocate for diversity with a commitment and experience in fostering an accessible, equitable, and inclusive educational environment and workplace.
- You cultivate productive relationships and enjoy working in a collaborative environment.

**What You’ll Do**

- Provide leadership in support, management, implementation, and assessment of research data initiatives. 
- Engage with library and campus stakeholders, including faculty, students, instructional technologists, and other library staff, to develop scalable and sustainable support for data-intensive courses through research consultations, workshops, and course-integrated instruction. 
- Provide expertise on finding and using publicly available, government, and hard to find data, especially in the sciences and social sciences. 
- Serve at the library representative to the campus Data@Reed team and other committees as needed.
- Conduct outreach and training sessions on data management planning, data literacy, and ethical use of data. 
- Assist with creation and development of data management plans, especially for the sciences. 
- Participate and provide leadership in library efforts around digital initiatives such as institutional repositories, open scholarship, and the senior thesis submission process. 
- Serve as primary liaison to assigned subject areas and actively develop collaborative relationships with faculty and students in those departments. 
- Develop and deliver reference and instruction services; teach research tools and skills relevant to data acquisition and curation as well as liaison areas.
- Develop and manage electronic and print collections to support the research and teaching needs of the community.
- Collaboratively develop and participate in library outreach and engagement programs. 

**Qualifications**

- ALA-accredited MLS/MLIS or relevant advanced degree and minimum of 2 years of professional library experience.
- Experience with identifying, finding, and managing research data, knowledge of data repositories, and associated metadata best practices.
- Excellent communication, teaching, writing and analytical skills.


**Job Location**

Portland, OR
