+++
title = " Senior Data Project Manager"
employer = "ICPSR (U. of Michigan)"
employerurl = "https://icpsr.umich.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.umich.edu/job_detail/238405/senior-data-project-manager"
postdate = "2023-08-22"
archivedate = "2023-10-03"
draft = "false"
+++

**Senior Data Project Manager**

Type: Full-Time

Salary: $75,000.00 - $85,000.00

REGULAR/TEMPORARY: Regular

ORGANIZATIONAL GROUP: Inst Soc Research

DEPARTMENT: ICPSR

**Summary**

The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR) in the Institute for Social Research is looking for an experienced Project Manager to direct data acquisition, archiving, and dissemination for the [Child and Family Data Archive (CFData)](https://www.childandfamilydataarchive.org/cfda/pages/cfda/index.html;jsessionid=CBBA9591311D24C316D18B06E6936A74). The Project Manager will lead the project management and user support team and will employ and manage adherence to generally accepted project management practices.

You will report to a Project Management and User Support Lead.

**Responsibilities**

**Project Administration**

You'll manage a project team that engages with external research teams to ingest and develop data for reuse and implement an outreach and distribution plan. You'll set and monitor project milestones, assign individual responsibilities, and develop a detailed work plan and schedule, to ensure completion of the project. You'll schedule meetings, create meeting agendas, summaries, report outcomes and communicate with the director(s) and funding agency on project status. You'll follow and monitor the project budget and identify appropriate resources needed, and assist with resource allocation. You'll manage relationships with partners in industry, government, academia and other ICPSR units.

**Data Acquisitions and Management of Confidential Data**

You'll collect and manage information about potential and existing data depositors, and direct their deposits. You'll also implement and ensure adherence with policies for handling confidential data.

**User Support and Outreach**

You'll participate in working policy groups and implement changing security and communication protocol standards. You'll ensure compliance with applicable policies and regulations (Institutional Review Board). You'll also present results and contribute to technical and procedural reports, and memos.

The statements included in this description are intended to reflect the general nature and level of work assigned to this classification and should not be interpreted as all-inclusive.

**Required Qualifications**

- Bachelor's degree in social sciences, education, information science, or related field.
- 4+ years' experience related to the responsibilities of the position.
- Knowledge of Smartsheet, JIRA, ASANA or other software to aid project management.
- Experience with statistical applications such as SAS, SPSS, or R.

**Desired Qualifications**

- Master's degree in social sciences, education, information science, or related field.
- Professional project management training or certification.
- Knowledge of confidentiality, disclosure, and related issues regarding the distribution of social science data.
- Academic/Government research experience.

**Work Locations**

You will work on-site at the University of Michigan offices in Ann Arbor, with flexible scheduling and remote opportunities made available within our overall Center policies.

**Underfill Statement**

This posting may be filled at the Senior or Intermediate level, depending on qualifications.

**Additional Information**

The Institute for Social Research (ISR) at the University of Michigan wants to recruit and retain a diverse workforce as a reflection of our commitment to serve the diverse people of Michigan, to maintain the excellence of the university, and to ground our research in varied disciplines, perspectives, and ways of knowing and learning. For more about ISR's commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, please [click here](https://isr.umich.edu/about/diversity/).

**Why Work at Michigan?**

In addition to a career filled with purpose and opportunity, U-M offers a comprehensive benefits package to help you stay well, protect yourself and your family, and plan for a secure future. Benefits include generous time off; retirement plan with two-for-one matching contributions after the first year; many choices for comprehensive health insurance; life insurance; long-term disability coverage; and flexible spending accounts for healthcare and dependent care expenses. [Learn more about U-M benefits](https://hr.umich.edu/benefits-wellness). We are family-friendly, offering flexible work hours, and we have a diverse staff that enriches the workplace with their experience.

**Job Location**

Ann Arbor, MI
