+++
title = "Research Data Librarian-Science Specialist"
employer = "Colorado State University"
employerurl = "https://www.colostate.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://jobs.colostate.edu/postings/134567"
postdate = "2023-10-06"
archivedate = "2023-12-22"
draft = "false"
+++

The Colorado State University Libraries seeks a collaborative, creative, user-centered professional for the position of Research Data Librarian-Science Specialist. 

Collaborating with Libraries colleagues and university partners and stakeholders, the Research Data Librarian will explore, design and implement data services and programming. With a focus on the sciences, they will support data management planning, data use/reuse, data literacy, ethical data sharing, workflows, reproducibility, and the utilization of computational tools and methods.  The successful candidate will promote awareness of resources and services among faculty and students through comprehensive, customized instructional activities on topics such as those listed above.  

Applicants for this position should include a cover letter and a resume or curriculum vitae. We encourage you to communicate how your skills and experiences transfer to the qualifications in ways that may not be obvious. The cover letter should also address diversity, equity, inclusion, and social justice as they relate to the position or the mission of the CSU Libraries. Preferred qualifications are not required. The Colorado State University Libraries is committed to lifelong learning and faculty development, and the successful candidate will have the opportunity and support to expand their expertise.  

We strongly encourage those who will further advance the libraries’ commitment to fostering a diverse and inclusive community, including those from historically underrepresented groups, to apply for this position. We welcome applicants with a range of experiences, including those new to the profession.    

**Required Job Qualifications: **

- Master’s degree in library science from an ALA-accredited program or international equivalent; a PhD in a data-intensive field; or a master's degree in a data-intensive field plus two years of relevant experience in the development, coordination, delivery, and/or promotion of data management services. Degree must be completed by December 31, 2023.  
- Knowledge of managing, curating, or preserving research data  
- Demonstrated ability to explain and/or teach complex ideas in a clear manner to audiences from diverse backgrounds and contexts 
- Demonstrated understanding of the principles of diversity, equity, inclusion, and social justice and how they relate to the position and mission of the CSU Libraries 

**Full Description Below:**

Proposed Annual Salary Range: 66,667-78,000

**Employee Benefits**

Colorado State University is not just a workplace; it's a thriving community that's transforming lives and improving the human condition through world-class teaching, research, and service. With a robust benefits package, collaborative atmosphere, commitment to [diversity, equity and inclusion](https://inclusiveexcellence.colostate.edu/about/), and focus on work-life balance, CSU is where you can thrive, grow, and make a lasting impact.

- For detailed benefit plan information for eligible employees, visit [https://hr.colostate.edu/hr-community-and-supervisors/benefits/benefits-eligibility/](https://hr.colostate.edu/hr-community-and-supervisors/benefits/benefits-eligibility/) and [https://hr.colostate.edu/prospective-employees/our-perks/](https://hr.colostate.edu/prospective-employees/our-perks/).
- For the total value of CSU benefits in addition to wages, visit [https://hr.colostate.edu/total-compensation-calculator/](https://hr.colostate.edu/total-compensation-calculator/).
- For more information about why Fort Collins is consistently ranked in the top cities to live in, visit [https://hr.colostate.edu/prospective-employees/our-community/](https://hr.colostate.edu/prospective-employees/our-community/).

Position Type: Faculty

Work Hours/Week: 40

**Description of Work Unit**

Founded in 1870, Colorado State University is among the nation's leading research universities and enrolls approximately 32,000 undergraduate, graduate, and professional students. Located an hour north of the Denver metro area, Fort Collins is a vibrant community of approximately 157,000 residents that offers the convenience of a small town with all the amenities of a large city. Fort Collins is situated on the Front Range of the Rocky Mountains with views of 14,000 foot peaks, and offers access to numerous cultural, recreational, and outdoor opportunities.

The CSU Libraries support the academic mission of Colorado State University by striving to provide equitable access to knowledges that empower expansive learning, intellectual growth, and joyful discovery for a sustainable, thriving planet and flourishing communities. We partner with people on their journey to academic success, community engagement, and excellence in research, creative artistry, and scholarship. Together we navigate and evaluate information and knowledge systems, illuminate varied lived experiences, discover possibilities, and labor toward a more equitable and just society.

Research Support & Open Scholarship is a new unit charged with reimagining library services to support Colorado State University's world-class research community. Over the past five years CSU's research expenditures have surged by 35% to $456.9 million in 2022, and CSU researchers are advancing solutions to some of biggest challenges affecting humanity and the planet.

With a focus on innovation, collaboration, and open scholarship, the Research Support and Open Scholarship (RSOS) team leads the university community in providing information, knowledge support and services for CSU researchers, including faculty, graduate students, research associates, post-docs, and CSU Extension. Opportunities for engagement include data management and literacy, GIS, evidence synthesis, research impact and bibliometrics, examination of diverse ways of knowing and communicating lived experiences, and scholarly communication, including open access, open education, and open science.

Tenure/Tenure Track?
No

% Research
0

% Teaching
90

% Service
10

% Administration
0

**Position Summary**

The Colorado State University Libraries seeks a collaborative, creative, user-centered professional for the position of Research Data Librarian-Science Specialist. Collaborating with the current Research Data Librarian and other colleagues in Research Support and Open Scholarship, as well as and university partners and stakeholders, the new Research Data Librarian (Science Specialist) will explore, design, and implement data services and programming. With a focus on the sciences, they will support data management planning, data use/reuse, data literacy, ethical data sharing, workflows, reproducibility, and the utilization of computational tools and methods. The successful candidate will promote awareness of resources and services among faculty and students through customized instructional activities on topics such as those listed above. This position also participates in strategic planning and campus efforts to support open scholarship.

At Colorado State University Libraries, we work as a team and collaborate with campus partners to solve problems, learn new skills, and support each other's work. The Libraries is committed to lifelong learning and faculty development, and the successful candidate will have the opportunity and support to expand their expertise and explore emerging tools and technologies that will strengthen the research community.

This position is based in Fort Collins, Colorado, and has the option of a hybrid work arrangement that will include onsite hours each week. Hybrid work arrangements are negotiated each semester with guidance from Libraries and university policies. [https://hr.colostate.edu/flexible-work-arrangements/](https://hr.colostate.edu/flexible-work-arrangements/)

At Colorado State University, diversity, equity, and inclusion are more than words - they are a call to action. The CSU Libraries supports this vision with a commitment to boosting equitable access to knowledge by eliminating barriers to discovery. We seek candidates from a rich variety of lived experiences who are excited to work with users in an inclusive university community that welcomes and affirms diversity of people, identities, perspectives, and ideas.

This will be an academic continuing appointment position and filled at the rank of

Assistant Professor or Associate Professor.

**Responsibilities**

- In cooperation with the current Research Data Librarian, supports the creation of data management and sharing plans in compliance with best practices and federal mandates.
- Works with researchers to facilitate the curation and sharing of data in Dryad or an appropriate subject repository, adhering to local policies and national and international standards and best practices.
- Provides outreach, instruction, workshops, and research support for management in the sciences.
- Works in collaboration with campus partners to offer consulting services for researchers on data use/reuse, workflows, reproducibility, data visualization, and the utilization of computational tools and methods.
- Engages with researchers to understand needs for data-intensive research support and reproducibility, including data management planning; funder/publisher data requirements; publishing/citing data; sharing code and software; locating relevant datasets; and supporting open scholarship.
- Maintains awareness of emerging trends and explores tools and methods related to research data services.
- Other duties and projects as assigned.
- Participates in service activities within the CSU Libraries, CSU campus, and regional or national professional organizations.

Conditions of Employment
Pre-employment Criminal Background Check (required for new hires)

**Required Job Qualifications**

- Master's degree in library science from an ALA-accredited program or international equivalent; a PhD in a data-intensive field; or a Master's degree in a data-intensive field plus two years of relevant experience in the development, coordination, delivery, and/or promotion of data management services. Degree must be completed by December 31, 2023.
- Knowledge of managing, curating, or preserving research data
- Demonstrated ability to explain and/or teach complex ideas in a clear manner to audiences from diverse backgrounds and contexts
- Demonstrated understanding of the principles of diversity, equity, inclusion, and social justice and how they relate to the position and mission of the CSU Libraries.

**Preferred Job Qualifications**

- Academic background in a science discipline, preferably an advanced degree in a quantitative data-intensive scientific field
- Experience in the development, coordination, delivery, and/or promotion of data management services
- Experience with developing and/or delivering training workshops, for example Software and Data Carpentry
- Familiarity with federal funder requirements for research data management and sharing
- Experience with data analytics
- Demonstrated knowledge of trends in the research data lifecycle, such as emerging standards and technologies; storage and preservation; disciplinary and institutional repositories; and persistent identifiers
- Demonstrated ability to work collaboratively in a team environment
- Experience providing instruction, consultation, outreach or policy development in a higher education, public research, government, or non-profit environment.

We strongly encourage those who will further advance the Libraries' commitment to fostering a diverse and inclusive community, including those from historically underrepresented groups, to apply for this position. We welcome applicants with a range of experiences, including those new to the profession.

CSU is committed to full inclusion of qualified individuals. If you are needing assistance or accommodations with the search process, please reach out to the listed search contact.
References will not be contacted without prior notification to candidates.

Background Check Policy Statement

Colorado State University strives to provide a safe study, work, and living environment for its faculty, staff, volunteers and students. To support this environment and comply with applicable laws and regulations, CSU conducts background checks for the finalist before a final offer. The type of background check conducted varies by position and can include, but is not limited to, criminal history, sex offender registry, motor vehicle history, financial history, and/or education verification. Background checks will also be conducted when required by law or contract and when, in the discretion of the University, it is reasonable and prudent to do so.

Job Duty Category: Librarianship: Data Management Consultation and Services

Duty/Responsibility

- Performs data management planning with principal investigators and researchers prior to grant submissions, or before the research data is collected or created
- Works with researchers to facilitate the curation and sharing of data in the Dryad data repository via CSU's institutional membership, or in an appropriate subject repository, adhering to local policies and national and international standards and best practices

Percentage Of Time: 35%

Job Duty Category: Librarianship: Instruction, Outreach and Partnership

Duty/Responsibility

- Serves as a resource to researchers, librarians, and the university community on data management issues and services
- Develops, delivers, and promotes training on data management and sharing
- Provides guidance and instruction on discovery, acquisition, and use of research data
- Works with researchers including faculty, graduate and post-doc students, academic and administrative units and research centers to enable them to better manage, archive and share their research data.

Percentage Of Time: 35%

Job Duty Category: Librarianship: Data Management Policy and Strategy Development

Duty/Responsibility

- In cooperation with supervisor, other members of the Libraries and university partners, contributes to planning, development, and evaluation of data management services for the CSU community

Percentage Of Time: 20%

Job Duty Category: Service

Duty/Responsibility

- Engages in professional development that incorporates goals, career paths, and competency areas
- Develops and maintains broad knowledge regarding of data stewardship and data management concepts
- Develops and maintains an expertise in data management issues and services for the sciences
- Attend conferences, seminars, and workshops to ensure continued professional development
- Serves on and contribute to campus committees, councils and user groups to increase campus-level knowledge and awareness, when appropriate to departmental needs
- Participates in local, state, and national activities for relevant professional associations
- Reflecting departmental and institutional values, participate in diversity initiatives to advance the Department's commitment to diversity and inclusion.

Percentage Of Time: 10%

**Job Location**

Fort Collins, CO
