+++
title = "Data Governance Specialist"
employer = "North Carolina State University"
employerurl = "https://www.ncsu.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://jobs.ncsu.edu/postings/183973"
postdate = "2023-05-30"
archivedate = "2023-06-28"
draft = "false"
+++

**Data Governance Specialist**

**Anticipated Hiring Range:**

Commensurate with education and experience (anticipated hiring range $55,000-$70,000)

**Work Schedule:**

8 am - 5 pm, Monday through Friday (nights and weekends may be required based on business needs).

**Department :**

Institutional Strategy & Analysis

**About the Department:**

As NC State’s central office and authoritative source for institutional reporting and analytics, Institutional Strategy and Analysis (ISA) supports the university’s strategic decisions, planning activities, operations, evaluation efforts, and accountability by providing consistent, reliable information and analysis to university leaders, administrators, faculty and staff, students, external stakeholders, and the public.
In carrying out its mission, ISA:

- Collects, analyzes, interprets, models, and reports information about NC State.
- Manages institutional strategic planning, including implementation planning and metrics for the university strategic plan.
- Provides leadership in governance and strategy with respect to the university’s academic and administrative data.
- Administers, analyzes, supports, and oversees institutional surveys.
- Supports, administers and maintains applicable data structures, applications, and systems.

**Essential Job Duties:**

The **Data Governance Specialist** position is part of the Data Governance team in Institutional Strategy & Analysis (ISA). The Data Governance Specialist under the supervision of the Director of Data Governance, will support efforts to ensure quality, access, and appropriate usage of NC State’s data and analytics environment, help build a more data-informed culture, and support a robust data driven decision-making ethos that will advance the university’s strategic goals.The Data Governance Specialist position will initially be a generalist role, which will involve contributing to a broad range of data governance program operations and projects, including data-related policy, procedures, and standards; enterprise data catalog; data quality efforts; and data literacy. As the program evolves and grows, the responsibilities of the position may become more specialized to meet the changing needs and focus of the program.

**Specific duties of the position may initially include:**

- Support the Data Governance program in the development and execution of institutional data governance initiatives, including by contributing to strategies, policies, procedures, standards, and projects; project tracking and management of assigned tasks and program initiatives; and conducting research on and staying aware of current trends of data governance in higher education.
- Serve as an enterprise data catalog administrator and key team member, providing end user support and resolving user issues, and supporting the ongoing implementation and expansion of the enterprise data catalog.
- Facilitate institutional data quality efforts, including issue intake, logging, tracking, investigation, resolution, and reporting, in collaboration and in conjunction with other ISA teams, data stewards, campus partners, and stakeholders in order to ensure institutional data is accurate, consistent, complete, and trusted for its intended use.
- Assist with institutional data literacy efforts, including training, demonstrations, documentation, support, and communication for multiple levels of expertise and need, from end users and analysts/developers, to executive-level data consumers in order to assist individuals in more effectively understanding, interpreting, and using institutional data.
- Serve as a resource and point of contact for campus constituents including data stewards, stakeholders, and campus leaders regarding the data governance program and its initiatives, escalating issues to the Director of Data Governance and other ISA leadership as appropriate.
- Additional responsibilities as required.


**We are interested in every qualified candidate who is eligible to work in the United States. However, we are not able to sponsor visas for this position.**

**Minimum Education and Experience:**

Master’s degree; or Bachelor’s degree with at least one year of applicable experience; or an equivalent combination of education, training and applicable experience.

**Other Required Qualifications:**

- Understanding of, and ability to convey to others, the value of institutional data and data governance.
- Working knowledge of, or ability to quickly learn, NC State’s organizational and data environment (data governance, academic structure and campus infrastructure, protocols, policies and procedures).
- Ability to maintain confidentiality with highly sensitive or controversial issues.
- Excellent oral and written communication skills and the ability to resolve questions or conflicts consistent with existing data governance standards; principles of collaboration and institutional effectiveness are essential.
 - Adherence to university policies and procedures concerning sensitive data.
- Ability to navigate and adapt to shifting priorities, strategic needs, and directions.
- Demonstrated ability to work cooperatively with a variety of constituencies and across organizational boundaries.
- Strong planning, analytical, and organizational skills.
- Self-motivated, with high standards for rigorous and detailed work.
- Ability to work independently and with others in a collaborative team environment.

**Preferred Qualifications:**

- Familiarity with higher education or government, or other complex service/regulatory experience.
- Experience with or knowledge of data catalogs or dictionaries, digital asset management, information management, or library science.
- Experience providing training on or developing educational content around the use of data.
- Experience in data quality assurance, data quality control, or data issue management.
- Experience in higher education in a professional role utilizing or handling university data.
- Experience with data governance processes and procedures at the enterprise level.
- Experience working with or understanding of data to produce reports, dashboards, or perform data analysis.
**Job Location**

Raleigh, NC
