+++
title = "Data Science Community Lead"
employer = "University of California Santa Barbara"
employerurl = "https://www.ucsb.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careerspub.universityofcalifornia.edu/psp/ucsb/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/c/HRS_HRAM.HRS_APP_SCHJOB.GBL?Page=HRS_APP_JBPST&Action=U&FOCUS=Applicant&SiteId=31&JobOpeningId=62563&PostingSeq=1"
postdate = "2023-12-13"
archivedate = "2023-12-22"
draft = "false"
+++

**Data Science Community Lead**

Salary range is in the full posting. Expected is ~$65,000.

The UCSB Library is seeking a full-time Data Science Community Lead. As a member of our DREAM Lab, this position will be responsible for growing our Carpentries workshop program. This is an on-site position in sunny Santa Barbara supporting our mission to spread Open Science best practices across campus. Help train the scientists of the future.

**Brief Summary of Job Duties** 

The UCSB Library's DREAM Lab seeks a Data Science Community Lead organizer to join our team of research and technology professionals.  We seek a creative, dynamic, and technologically proficient individual to support and expand our Data and Software Carpentry education community on the UCSB campus.

The Data Science Community Lead will be responsible for organizing staff and volunteers who are presenting various extra-curricular data science workshops, including but not limited to version control with Git, the Unix Shell, statistical scripting with R and Python, and geospatial analysis with R. You will lead the growth of a volunteer Instructor and Helper community by performing outreach, organizing events, and mentoring new volunteers. You will ensure active participation and attendance in workshops by leading communication efforts towards Learners and other campus constituents. You will train the community to publish workshop websites and new data science curriculum materials using GitHub Pages
and Markdown.

Beyond Carpentries, the DREAM Lab is a campus destination for scholars to work across disciplinary boundaries on data-intensive research projects. Each individual on our team offers guidance on access to the Library's data collections, refers out to other computational resources on campus, and supports software tools to analyze and visualize quantitative, qualitative, and spatial data.


**Full Position description**

Payroll Title: Trainer 2

Salary Grade: Grade 20

Hiring/Budgeted Hourly Range:  $29.55 - $38.46/hr.

Full Salary Range:  Salary offers are determined based on final candidate qualifications and experience; the budget for the position; and the application of fair, equitable, and consistent pay practices at the University. The full salary range for this position is $29.55 to $51.77/hr. The budgeted hourly range that the University reasonably expects to pay for this position is $29.55 to $38.46/hr.

Work Location:  UCSB Library

Working Days and Hours:  Monday - Friday; 8:00am - 5:00pm

Benefits Eligibility:  Full Benefits

Type of Remote or Hybrid Work Arrangement if applicable:  Hybrid

**Department Marketing Statement**

UCSB Library empowers researchers and students to create and adapt knowledge for the benefit of society. Situated at the interdisciplinary crossroads of campus, the Library embodies scholarship and advances UCSB as a world-class research and learning institution. With a staff of 240 employees and student workers, the Library manages more than 3.6 million unique print and digital resources, including world-renowned special research collections, and provides a wide range of innovative research, teaching and learning services to more than 2 1/2 million physical and virtual visitors per year.

**Benefits of Belonging**

Working at UC means being part of this vibrant institution that shines a light on what is possible. People make UC great, and UC recognizes your contributions by making this a great place to work. Excellent retirement and health are just one of the rewards. [Learn more about the benefits of working at UC](https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/compensation-and-benefits/benefits-of-belonging.html) and why [You Belong at UC](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xBGityMgQd4&authuser=0).

**Brief Summary of Job Duties**

The UCSB Library's DREAM Lab seeks a data science community lead organizer and educator to join its team of research and technology professionals.  We seek a creative, dynamic, and technologically proficient individual to support and expand our Data and Software Carpentry community on the UCSB campus.

The Data Science Education Lead will be responsible for organizing staff and volunteers who are presenting various extra-curricular data science workshops, including but not limited to version control with Git, the Unix Shell, statistical scripting with R and Python, and geospatial analysis with R. You will lead the growth of a volunteer Instructor and Helper community by performing outreach, organizing events, and mentoring new volunteers. You will ensure active participation and attendance in workshops by leading communication efforts towards Learners and other campus constituents. You will train the community to publish workshop websites and new data science curriculum materials using GitHub Pages
and Markdown.

Beyond Carpentries, the DREAM Lab is a campus destination for scholars to work across disciplinary boundaries on data-intensive research projects. Each individual on our team offers guidance on access to the Library's data collections, refers out to other computational resources on campus, and supports software tools to analyze and visualize quantitative, qualitative, and spatial data. #LI-KA1

**Required Qualifications**

- Bachelor's Degree in related area and/or equivalent experience/training.
- 2-4 years experience in a relevant technical environment with educational responsibilities.
- 1-3 years experience teaching technical skills applied to research disciplines, preferably at the university level.
- A high degree of data science knowledge as applied at the university level.
- Experience working with one or more of the following technologies: Python, R, Shell Scripting, version control with Git, Relational Databases
     
**Preferred Qualifications**

- Master's Degree or Advanced degree in a relevant discipline and/or with significant data science coursework.
- Work experience as a data scientist or in an academic library data services program.
- Experience with web publishing, content management systems, and/or code driven web development.
- Broad expertise in R and/or Python for scientific computing.
- Proficiency in analytical, verbal, written and interpersonal communication skills, collaboration and negotiation skills.
- Software Carpentry Instructor Certification (UCSB will sponsor if not).

**Special Conditions of Employment**

- Satisfactory conviction history [background check](https://www.hr.ucsb.edu/hr-units/talent-acquisition/all-about-background-checks)
-  [UCSB is a Tobacco-Free environment](https://tobaccofree.ucsb.edu/policy)

**Job Functions and Percentages of Time:**

- Organize Carpentry Community (30%): Manage the UCSB Library Carpentry program. Formulate strategies to develop existing and new collaborations with upper-division undergraduates, graduate students, and faculty who have data-centric skills and wish to share them with a broader audience. Inspire these researchers to become active contributors to the Carpentry program as Helpers and Instructors. Conduct outreach to scholars in the humanities, fine arts, and/or social sciences who require new data science skills in their work.
- Data Science Workshops (45%): Organize, design, and teach extra-curricular data science workshops around data organization, statistical analysis, and/or visualization, primarily using Markdown, R, and Python. Assists others in doing so. Contribute to new and existing data science lessons hosted on Github or similar using Open Science and pedagogical best practices. Maintain current awareness of tools and techniques in common use among data science practitioners.
- Support Data Science Research (15%): Provide direct support to Carpentry Learners, including undergraduate and graduate students, faculty, and staff using one or more of the following: R, Python, MySQL, or similar existing and emerging application environments being deployed by contemporary scholars. Leverage other DREAM Lab and Library resources and collections to conduct and support data-centric research in partnership with UCSB scholars. 
- Other (10%): Contribute to Lab- and Library-wide collaborative efforts in areas of expertise
     
**Job Location**

Santa Barbara, CA
