+++
title = "Circulation Manager"
employer = "University of St. Augustine for Health Sciences"
employerurl = "https://www.usa.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.usa.edu/job/san-marcos/library-circulation-manager/26483/42695364560"
postdate = "2023-01-11"
archivedate = "2023-03-02"
draft = "false"
+++

**Circulation Manager**

The mission of the University of St. Augustine for Health Sciences is the development of professional health care practitioners through innovation, individualized, and quality classroom, clinical, and distance education.


**GENERAL SUMMARY**

Responsible for the management of all activities associated with the campus library circulation processes and customer service. Responsible for upholding and enforcing library policies and procedures including Circulation Procedures, Policy on Fines, and Policy on Lost or Damaged Materials. Note: this position requires regular weekend hours.

**ESSENTIAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES**

- Assist students and faculty with checking in / checking out / renewing library materials.

- Provide customer service support to all library patrons, including answering basic questions and locating items.

- Proctor individual exams in the library as requested according to the Library Proctoring Policy.

- Troubleshoot problems with library technology such as printers, copiers, computers, etc.

- Train, schedule, and supervise part-time student library workers.

- Orient new students to library services and collections.

- Serve as a point of communication between the Library and the University, students and faculty on the weekends.

- Uphold and enforce official library policies and procedures, including overdue items and late charges.

- Maintain borrower records in library information management system.

- Record and process incoming serials or other items as needed.

- Manage the library cash drawer and collect payment for late fees.

- Coordinate loans with other campus libraries within the University.

- Meet regularly with other library staff on all campuses to suggest changes or report problems.

- Support and assist the Librarian, including maintaining sole responsibility of the library when the Librarian is absent.

- Contribute to university-wide library projects.

- Contribute to meeting the goals in the Library Long Range Plan

**OTHER DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES**

May perform other duties and responsibilities that management may deem necessary from time to time.

**Job Location**

San Marcos, CA
