+++
title = "Metadata Librarian"
employer = "Seton Hall University"
employerurl = "https://shu.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://jobs.shu.edu/cw/en-us/job/495710/metadata-librarian"
postdate = "2023-04-20"
archivedate = "2023-05-26"
draft = "false"
+++

**Metadata Librarian**

Full time/Part time: Full-time

Location: South Orange

Categories: Faculty

The successful candidate will oversee and manage all aspects of the full life cycle of print and electronic library resources to ensure accurate representation on the shelves and in integrated library and archival systems. In addition, the Metadata Librarian will have outstanding communication and organizational skills to build and maintain collaborative working relationships with colleagues. Working closely with the Assistant Dean of Information Technology and Collection Services, Electronic Resources Librarian, and Acquisitions Librarian, the incumbent will oversee and manage all aspects of metadata and deliver a seamless experience to users regarding the access and discovery of library resources and services. This position will play an integral role in working cooperatively with units across the library to develop workflows and services that enhance access to our rich print, digital, and electronic collections. This is a tenure track position; an additional graduate degree, scholarship, and service are required for consideration for tenure.

**Duties and Responsibilities:**

- Oversee and provide leadership for cataloging, metadata management, and discovery services procedures and strategic initiatives across various platforms.
- Perform original and copy cataloging for MARC records on an as needed basis; participate in special cataloging projects as needed to improve the findability of materials.
- Direct bibliographic and authority maintenance activities, ensuring search quality and accuracy.
- Evaluate electronic data in a variety of formats for resource discovery; and keep current with issues and trends in cataloging and
resource discovery.
- Assist with automating and integrating workflows for metadata creation and related processes (such as reformatting and digitization).
- Collaborate with Collection Services Librarians, the Special Collections and the Gallery, to transform or “crosswalk” metadata using
standard tools and scripts.
- Develop and maintain positive, collaborative relationships with staff across the Library and with external partners, as appropriate, to
foster improved metadata practices.
- Chair the Discovery committee to provide opportunities for teaching/reference faculty to help direct this process.
- Oversee the Electronic Theses and Dissertation (ETDs) workflows. Provide oversight to staff assigned to assist with ETDs.
- Supervise staff assigned to specific metadata/cataloging projects and student library assistants.
- Participate in teaching and reference as needs arise.
- Other duties as assigned.

**Required Qualifications:**

- Master’s degree in Library and Information Science from an ALA accredited degree program. Second master’s degree, scholarly activity and service will be required for tenure.
- Minimum 1-3 years’ experience working with metadata.
- Knowledge of MARC, AACR2, RDA, Dublin Core, MODS, EAD and RDF/BIBFRAME.
- Experience working with institutional repository software such as Digital Commons.
- Demonstrated commitment to diversity and inclusion specifically as it pertains to cataloging/metadata work.
- Ability to communicate effectively: verbally, writing, and listening.
- Some supervisory or training experience.
- Excellent interpersonal, analytical, organizational, problem-solving, time management, and communication skills.
- Ability to produce accurate statistics and reports.
- Commitment to supporting the Mission of the University and servant leadership.

**Desired Qualifications:**

- Experience using MarcEdit, OpenRefine and/or Python.
- Basic understanding of licensing and copyright issues.
- Experience with Tableau or PowerBI.
- Experience cataloging materials for special collections.
- Reading knowledge of a second language.
- Experience with data management and data curation practices.

**Salary Grade:**

FA01 - Faculty

**Exempt/Nonexempt:**

Exempt

**Physical Demands:**

General Office Environment

**Job Location**

South Orange, NJ
