+++
title = "Engineering Librarian"
employer = "U of California-San Diego"
employerurl = "https://library.ucsd.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://apol-recruit.ucsd.edu/JPF03571"
postdate = "2023-04-12"
archivedate = "2023-05-26"
draft = "false"
+++

Position title: Engineering Librarian

Salary range: $60,116-$144,822


**Engineering Librarian**

Academic Engagement and Learning Services

The University of California, San Diego Library seeks creative, collaborative, and service-oriented applicants for the position of Engineering Librarian for our Academic Engagement and Learning Services (AELS) Program (Assistant, Associate or Full Librarian).

**Responsibilities of the Position**

Reporting to the AELS Assistant Program Director for Instruction and Outreach Services, the Engineering Librarian investigates and identifies user needs and develops services and collections for faculty, staff and students of the Jacobs School of Engineering (JSOE).

**Subject Librarian Services (75%)**

- Deliver consistent communications and outreach to the departments of Biomedical Engineering, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, and Structural Engineering.
- Collaborate with other STEM librarians on broader outreach to the JSOE and engineering- related campus programs such as the California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology.
- Build relationships and gather information about assigned departments to discover curricular trends, student and faculty research needs, and other information to guide service development and priorities.
- Develop subject-related learning objectives to advance information and data literacy and deliver instruction in a variety of formats.
- Provide subject-related research assistance and consultations and collaborate with Physical Sciences and Data Services colleagues to provide research assistance, such as finding and analyzing datasets and helping students with engineering software and 3D design and modeling.
- Develop and maintain library collections, including primary and secondary sources, tools, and engineering standards, to support the teaching, learning, and research needs of Engineering students and faculty.

**General Services (25%)**

- Participate in general library instruction and research assistance via physical and virtual service points.
- Participate in AELS team meetings and contribute to program goals and initiatives.
- Develop and implement strategies for advancing diversity, inclusion, equity, and accessibility in instruction, research assistance services and collections.

**About The Library** – Great Research Starts Here

The [UC San Diego Library](https://library.ucsd.edu/about/index.html) serves the University’s vision to be a student-centered, research-focused, service-oriented public university. Serving the entire UC San Diego community, we are dedicated to building a Library that reflects and supports our community’s values. Applicants should be committed to building an inclusive, equitable and diverse culture.

The Library’s Academic Engagement and Learning Services (AELS) Program leads academic outreach, learning, and research consultation services that support student and faculty success and advance the Library’s role as a place for community and scholarship.

Librarians at UC San Diego are academic appointees and entitled to appropriate professional leave and all other perquisites granted to non-faculty academic personnel. UC San Diego offers flexible work options such as flextime or compressed workweeks, and worksite flexibility. This position will start with a hybrid schedule with a combination of onsite and remote work. UC San Diego Librarians are expected to participate in library-wide and system-wide planning and governance and to be professionally active.

To foster the best possible working and learning environment, all library staff at UC San Diego strive to cultivate a rich and diverse academic environment, inclusive of students, faculty, and staff of varying social, economic, cultural and ethnic backgrounds, and those with disabilities. For more information, please review the UC San Diego [Principles of Community](https://ucsd.edu/about/principles.html), the Library’s [Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion](https://library.ucsd.edu/about/diversity-and-inclusion/library-commitment.html), and the [Library Diversity and Inclusion Committee](https://library.ucsd.edu/about/lauc-sd/5_committees/diversity/index.html). We also encourage the opportunity to build a network of peers that share your similar passions and interests through the UCSD Staff Associations network.

**About the University**

UC San Diego is dedicated to the advancement of knowledge through excellence in education and research. Visit the [website](https://ucsd.edu/about/index.html) to learn more about the campus, faculty and students . The [Jacobs School of Engineering](https://jacobsschool.ucsd.edu/about) includes six academic departments committed to the campus vision of student centeredness. Their [“IDEA” center](https://jacobsschool.ucsd.edu/idea/about) promotes Inclusion, Diversity, Excellence and Achievement to promote student success and wellbeing in partnership with many campus programs.

**Basic qualifications** (Required at Time of Application)

- MLS/MLIS or equivalent degree or experience. New graduates and students close to graduation will be considered.
- Communication and interpersonal skills including intercultural competence and awareness of customer service methods and practices that support student well-being and belonging.
- Interest in learning and professional development to acquire skills and tools for continuous improvement of library collections and services for Engineering.
- Analytical and organizational skills for planning and completing projects.
- Experience working both independently and collaboratively with faculty, students, staff and colleagues from diverse backgrounds and cultures. Non-academic team experiences will also be considered.
- Knowledge of engineering disciplines and applicable research tools and software. Transferable skills are acceptable. Experience working in various settings will be considered.

**Preferred qualifications**

- Experience in providing library public services
- Bachelor’s or advanced degree in an Engineering or STEM discipline

**Job Location**

La Jolla, CA
