+++
title = "Research Data Management Librarian"
employer = "Penn State University"
employerurl = "https://psu.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://psu.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/PSU_Academic/job/Penn-State-University-Park/Research-Data-Management-Librarian_REQ_0000040015-1"
postdate = "2023-02-22"
archivedate = "2023-03-30"
draft = "false"
+++

**Research Data Management Librarian**

 Penn State University Libraries seeks a collaborative, enthusiastic, and inquisitive individual interested in supporting the Penn State research community’s growing data management and data sharing needs by providing guidance, consultation, instruction, and data curation in a team environment. This tenure-line library faculty position will play a key role in promoting research reproducibility and research data best practices by directly supporting researchers across all Penn State academic colleges and campuses with research data management, sharing, and preservation as well as the development of reproducible workflows. This position will also work closely with the Data Learning Center Manager/Research Data Management Librarian to provide continued support and grow the data management and sharing services offered by the University Libraries, proactively collaborate with other research support units to provide cohesive data management and sharing services for the research community, and take a leadership role in defining and supporting data management services for sensitive data and/or human subjects research. Additionally, this position will provide support for an institutional repository, ScholarSphere, by working as part of the curation team supporting researchers in publishing and preserving their research data and curating deposits to improve findability, accessibility, interoperability, and reusability.  

More specifically, the responsibilities for this position include:  

- Organizing workshops and instruction on introductory and specialized topics to train researchers (students, staff, and faculty) on data management and sharing requirements from funders and publishers, workflows to improve data quality, findability, accessibility, interoperability, and reusability, and the ethical and responsible use of sensitive and/or human subjects data.    
- Providing guidance and consultation for researchers in the development of data management plans, data management best practices throughout the research lifecycle, selecting a data repository, and preparing and uploading digital research data to data repositories.   
- Reviewing data management plans prior to proposal submission and supporting researchers using data management planning tools. 
- Maintaining expertise of data management practices and needs for specific research domains. 
- Collaborating with colleagues in the University Libraries and across research support units to strategically plan and develop research support services, with a focus on services for sensitive and/or human subjects data. 
- Curating works deposited to a Penn State institutional repository, ScholarSphere, to ensure that the data curation service is delivered in an efficient and timely manner.  

This position will report to the Data Learning Center Manager/Research Data Management Librarian and will be a part of the Data Learning Center unit within the Research Informatics and Publishing Department. The Research Informatics and Publishing Department (RePub) is a collaborative, and innovative unit within the Penn State University Libraries. RePub enhances the technology driven teaching and research capacity of the Penn State community.  

The primary work location of this position is intended to be located at the University Park campus, however consideration may be provided at one of Penn State’s Commonwealth Campuses. Flexible work arrangements, such as hybrid work opportunities, may be considered. Questions related to flexible work should be directed to the hiring manager during the interview process.

The Penn State University Libraries are a strategic asset to Penn State University, advancing intellectual discovery, information literacy, and lifelong learning, all in support of the University’s strategic goals in teaching, research, service, and outreach. More information about working at the Penn State University Libraries including the organization at a glance, culture and community, mentoring and professional development, salary and benefits as well as the evaluation, promotion, and tenure process can be found at: [https://libraries.psu.edu/about/jobs](https://libraries.psu.edu/about/jobs).  

The University Libraries values diversity of thought, perspective, experience and people, and is actively committed to a culture of inclusion and respect. We encourage candidates who thrive in a welcoming multicultural environment to apply. More information on Penn State’s commitment to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusive Excellence can be found by visiting [http://equity.psu.edu/diversity-statement](http://equity.psu.edu/diversity-statement).  Information about the University Libraries’ Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility efforts can be found by visiting [https://libraries.psu.edu/about/diversity](https://libraries.psu.edu/about/diversity). 

**Required Qualifications:**

- Master of Library Science degree from an ALA-accredited institution, or an advanced degree in a relevant subject area, or a minimum of 3 years combined of information science, informatics, and/or research experience. 
- Experience conducting consultations and/or developing and delivering training and/or workshops. 
- Demonstrated ability to skillfully manage short and long-term interactions with patrons and/or colleagues. 
- Potential to achieve the [requirements for tenure and promotion](https://libraries.psu.edu/policies/ul-acg07) in the areas of librarianship, research, and service. 

**Preferred Qualifications:**

- Experience with sensitive and/or human subjects data and the Institutional Review Board (IRB) process 
- Proficiency with working with complex datasets  
- Familiarity with open source, scripted coding language(s) (e.g., R, Python, etc.)  
- Understanding of version control software (e.g., Git) 
- Ability to work with underserved and/or underrepresented populations. 

Applicants for the Assistant Librarian rank should have: 

A graduate degree in library or information studies or other appropriate degree; must have demonstrated potential ability as a librarian; and must have shown promise of growth in research and service. 

Applicants for the Associate Librarian rank should have: 

In addition to the qualifications for Assistant Librarian, the Associate Librarian should demonstrate excellence in librarianship, show evidence of an established reputation in research, and have a strong record of service to the University and the profession. 

**Job Location**

University Park, PA
