+++
title = "Social Scientist Technician"
employer = "US Department of Agriculture"
employerurl = "https://usda.gov/"
moreinfourl = "https://www.usajobs.gov/job/717542200"
postdate = "2023-04-12"
archivedate = "2023-05-26"
draft = "false"
+++

**Social Scientist Technician**

Department of Agriculture

Agricultural Research Service

The USDA Agricultural Research Service is hiring a Social Science Technician to help understand the social networks that conserve and recycle nutrients across agricultural systems. The Technician will coordinate, collect, and summarize data to support circular nutrient management with a “manureshed” approach, helping to increase the sustainability of food systems while protecting water and air quality. Located in sunny Las Cruces, New Mexico.

**Summary**

This position is located within the USDA, ARS, Field Organization, Plains Area, Range Management Research Unit, in Las Cruces, New Mexico.

In this position, you will coordinate, collect, and summarize data to support scientific research on networks of people who cooperate to recycle nutrients from confined animal farms to croplands and rangelands.

This is a term, time-limited appointment with an initial duration no less than 13 months and can be extended up to a total of 4 years.

 
**Duties**

- Adapts, modifies, or develops new techniques or procedures for surveys, interviews, workshops, and social network analysis with guidance from research scientists. 
- Independently initiates action to resolve or correct technical difficulties and results or recommends resolution to supervisor. 
- Collects, prepares, evaluates, and verifies qualitative and/or quantitative data and supporting records. 
- Uses newsletters, social media, and websites to develop and strengthen information sharing in social networks.
- Tabulates, statistically analyzes or qualitatively analyzes and summarizes data using personal computers and software packages. 
    


**Requirements**

**Conditions of Employment**

- You must be a US Citizen or US National. 
- Males born after 12/31/1959 must be Selective Service registered or exempt. 
- Subject to satisfactory adjudication of background investigation and/or fingerprint check. 
- Successful completion of one-year trial period, unless previously served. 
- Direct Deposit: Per Public Law 104-134 all Federal employees are required to have federal payments made by direct deposit to their financial institution. 
- Successfully pass the E-Verify employment verification check. To learn more about E-Verify, including your rights and responsibilities, visit E-Verify at [https://www.e-verify.gov/ ](https://www.e-verify.gov/)

**Qualifications**
Applicants must meet all qualifications and eligibility requirements by the closing date of the announcement including specialized experience and/or education, as defined below:

**GS-07**
Specialized Experience: Specialized experience is experience directly related to the position to be filled. Specialized experience must be described for each grade level advertised. The specialized experience requirements for this position are: Qualifying experience for GS-07 includes one year of specialized experience comparable to GS-06 which is directly related to the work of this position and which has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. For this position, specialized experience is experience participating in a research project related to social science research; and performing routine scientific techniques using a variety of specialized equipment.
OR
Education: Completion of one full year of study leading to a master's or equivalent graduate degree, if directly related. Related degrees may include social science, rangeland management, environmental studies, anthropology, sociology, geography, or agricultural engineering.
OR
A combination of specialized experience and graduate level education as described above.

**GS-08**
Specialized Experience: Specialized experience is experience directly related to the position to be filled. Specialized experience must be described for each grade level advertised. The specialized experience requirements for this position are: Qualifying experience for GS-08 includes one year of specialized experience comparable to GS-07 which is directly related to the work of this position and which has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. For this position, specialized experience is experience contributing to the planning and modification of techniques or procedures related to a social science research project; collecting and analyzing scientific data related to a social science research project; and preparing scientific reports.
OR
Education: Two full years of graduate level education or a Master's degree, if directly related to the position. Related degrees may include social science, rangeland management, environmental studies, anthropology, sociology, geography, or agricultural engineering.
OR
A combination of graduate level education and experience as described above.

**GS-09**
Specialized Experience: Specialized experience is experience directly related to the position to be filled. Specialized experience must be described for each grade level advertised. The specialized experience requirements for this position are: Qualifying experience for GS-09 includes one year of specialized experience comparable to GS-08 which is directly related to the work of this position and which has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. For this position, specialized experience is experience developing the planning, designing, and modification of techniques and procedures related to a social science research project; collecting and analyzing scientific data related to a social science research project; and documenting findings to be included in manuscripts or scientific reports.
OR
Education: Two full years of graduate level education or a Master's degree, if directly related to the position. Related degrees may include social science, rangeland management, environmental studies, anthropology, sociology, geography, or agricultural engineering.
OR
A combination of graduate level education and experience as described above.

Experience refers to paid and unpaid experience, including volunteer work done through National Service programs (e.g., Peace Corps, AmeriCorps) and other organizations (e.g., professional; philanthropic; religious; spiritual; community, student, social). Volunteer work helps build critical competencies and can provide valuable training and experience that translates directly to paid employment. You will receive credit for all qualifying experience, including volunteer experience.
Education

This position does not have an education qualification requirement.


**Job Location**

Las Cruces, NM
