+++
title = "Taxonomy and Information Architecture Specialist"
employer = "Baker Library, Harvard Business School"
employerurl = "https://www.library.hbs.edu/"
moreinfourl = "Taxonomy and Information Architecture Specialist"
postdate = "2023-03-13"
archivedate = "2023-04-27"
draft = "false"
+++

**Taxonomy and Information Architecture Specialist**

**Job Summary**

Reporting to the Manager of the Information Management Team and part of the Metadata and Knowledge Systems Department (MKS), the Taxonomy and Information Architecture Specialist will work with the Information Management Team to provide services in information structure, content description and access, entity management, taxonomy development and ontology management to the Harvard Business School community. The Taxonomy and Information Architecture Specialist is responsible for working with stakeholders and customers to develop and maintain metadata, taxonomies and other vocabularies and/or entity lists used at BL and HBS, tagging content with relevant vocabularies, and contributing to the ongoing development of our local ontology and knowledge graph. The Taxonomy and Information Architecture Specialist works closely with the MKS Technical Team to develop and maintain instance data for our local Knowledge Graph.

**Position Description**

**Responsibilities Include:**

- Performs data analysis, manipulation, transformation and querying in support of local Knowledge Graph.
- Develops taxonomies and controlled vocabularies which includes content analysis and user testing. Conducts authority control and entity management for HBS-related entities such as people and organizations.
- Conducts content inventories, analysis, and requirements gathering to produce content recommendations and reports for consulting customers.
- Provides colleagues and customers with training and support in tagging and metadata management best practices.
- Performs other relevant duties as assigned.
- Ability to perform the essential duties of the position with or without reasonable accommodation

**Basic Qualifications**

- Master’s degree in Library/Information Science, Information Management, Linguistics, or other relevant disciplines and 3 years of applicable work experience in information management, data science, content management, entity management, knowledge graphs, taxonomy, or other metadata work is required.

OR

- BA/BS degree in a relevant area such as Data and Information science, Linguistics, Computer Science, or other relevant disciplines and 4 or more years equivalent experience in information management, data science, content management, entity management, knowledge graphs, taxonomy, or other metadata work is required. In lieu of a completed BA/BS degree, candidates must have a HS diploma or GED and 1 additional year of relevant professional experience.

**Additional Qualifications and Skills**

- Strong attention to detail and excellent analytical and critical thinking skills.
- Must be flexible, adaptable, curious, and willing to learn.
- Skilled in data analysis, cleaning, manipulation, transformation to RDF, ETL processes and validation.
- Proficient in Python, R, and/or other scripting tools and graph query languages like SPARQL or Cypher.
- Experience with Excel, graph databases and triple stores.
- Experience with tools such as Pool Party and Protégé for taxonomy and ontology management.
- Familiar with library and metadata standards such as Schema.org, Dublin Core, RDA, and/or BIBFRAME, and name authority or identity management practices.
- Excellent organizational, writing, communication, and interpersonal skills.
- Ability to work autonomously as well as with customers and within a team environment.
- Motivation to learn with a commitment to taking initiative and thriving in an evolving, collaborative environment, and the ability to produce timely and high-quality results.


Please note that interviewed candidates will be asked to share a sample of their work and candidates who advance to the second round will be asked to complete a couple of brief exercises.

**Additional Information**

This position is approved for a 2-year term (with possibility of renewal/extension) which begins on the person's first day of employment.

This role is offered as a hybrid (some combination of onsite and remote) where you are required to be onsite at our Boston, MA based campus 3 days per week. Specific days and schedule will be determined between you and your manager.

Culture of Inclusion: The work and well-being of HBS is profoundly strengthened by the diversity of our network and our differences in background, culture, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, and life experiences. Explore more about HBS work culture here https://www.hbs.edu/employment.

Job Function: Library

Department Office Location: USA - MA - Boston

Job Code: 386057 Library Professional

Work Format: Hybrid (partially on-site, partially remote)

Department: Baker Library

Time Status: Full-time

[Salary Grade](https://hr.harvard.edu/salary-ranges#ranges): 057

Union: 00 - Non Union, Exempt or Temporary

Pre-Employment Screening: Education, Identity

**Commitment to Equity, Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging**

Harvard University views equity, diversity, inclusion, and belonging as the pathway to achieving inclusive excellence and fostering a campus culture where everyone can thrive. We strive to create a community that draws upon the widest possible pool of talent to unify excellence and diversity while fully embracing individuals from varied backgrounds, cultures, races, identities, life experiences, perspectives, beliefs, and values.

**EEO Statement**

We are an equal opportunity employer and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status, gender identity, sexual orientation, pregnancy and pregnancy-related conditions, or any other characteristic protected by law.

**Job Location**

Boston, MA
