+++
title = "Associate Chief Librarian for Data Services, Digital Scholarship and Information Technologies"
employer = "University of Toronto Libraries"
employerurl = "https://library.utoronto.ca"
moreinfourl = "https://www.kbrs.ca/Career/16899"
postdate = "2023-04-30"
archivedate = "2023-05-26"
draft = "false"
+++

**Associate Chief Librarian for Data Services, Digital Scholarship and Information Technologies**

 This is a seven-year renewable term position. It is also a permanent status stream position.

Compensation: 

It is anticipated that this position will be filled at the Librarian III or IV level, subject to review and experience. Minimum salary: LIB III: $95,411; LIB IV: $112,418 (Salary is dependent on rank at hire and qualifications).

Target Audience:

5–10 Years of Experience

10+ Years of Experience

**Job Description**

Are you looking for challenging, meaningful work in a supportive and diverse environment? Are you looking for a career at one of Canada’s top employers? Work where the world comes to think, discover and learn. Consider a career at the University of Toronto (U of T).

Fully committed to teaching and research as complementary facets of scholastic achievement, the University is consistently ranked among the top 25 universities in the world for teaching, research, and innovation, and also leads in disciplinary excellence with top ranked departments in fields ranging from neuroscience to geography to philosophy. U of T is regularly named one of Canada’s Top 100 Employers and one of Canada’s Best Diversity Employers.

The University of Toronto Libraries (UTL) system is the largest academic library in Canada and is consistently ranked in the top ten among academic research libraries in North America. The system is comprised of 40 libraries located on three university campuses: St. George, Mississauga, and Scarborough. This array of college libraries, special collections, and specialized libraries and information centres supports the teaching and research requirements of over 300 graduate programs, more than 70 professional programs, and about 700 undergraduate degree programs. In addition to more than 12 million volumes in 341 languages, the library system currently provides access to millions of electronic resources in various forms and over 31,000 linear metres of archival material. The Libraries’ data centre houses more than 600 servers with a storage capacity of 1.5 petabytes.

Reporting to the University Chief Librarian of the University of Toronto Libraries, the Associate Chief Librarian for Data Services, Digital Scholarship and Information Technologies has leadership , management, policy, planning and implementation responsibilities for data, digital scholarship, and information technology services in the Central Libraries, and collaborates with colleagues in the University of Toronto community and beyond to serve the research and academic mission of the University. As a member of the University Chief Librarian’s Executive Leadership Table, they also play a key role in advancing the overall strategic goals of the Libraries. UTL seeks a creative, innovative, experienced, service-oriented, and knowledgeable library leader to serve in this key position.

The Associate Chief Librarian for Data Services, Digital Scholarship and Information Technologies is responsible for overseeing the operations of the Information Technology Services department, Map and Data Library, Information Commons, and Scholars Portal. They collaborate with the respective heads and managers in these areas to ensure excellent services. Additionally, the incumbent works with other UTL colleagues in related areas, manages the UTL relationship with Chief Information Officer of the University, and works closely with Academic & Collaborative Technologies (ACT) and other technology intensive units to support institutional goals and priorities. The principal responsibilities of the role are as follows:

- Provides administrative leadership to data, digital scholarship, and information technology services administered by the Central Libraries.
- Develops and implements outstanding, proactive services that meet the evolving needs of faculty, students, staff, and researchers at the University. Coordinates with all University of Toronto Libraries to enhance service delivery in these areas, ensuring a coherent, seamless experience on the part of our users;
- Collaborates, cultivates and partners with:
    - the UTL leadership team, Deans and Chairs, faculties, relevant University partners such as the Chief Information Officer, Office of the Vice-President, Research & Innovation, Centre for Research & Innovation Support, Centre for Teaching Support & Innovation, and other technology units or colleagues as appropriate to set directions for data, digital scholarship, and IT services;
    - The interrelated communities across the tri-campuses to shape scholarly services in support of the research and instructional mission of the University;
    - National and international partners to foster innovation in the areas of data, digital scholarship and IT;
- Provides leadership to a dynamic team of more than 80 skilled staff in four different units with staff in different employee groups (librarians, CUPE 1230, USW and student casuals). Fosters a culture of innovation, engagement, and collaboration across units to achieve objectives. Promotes continuous professional growth and learning to all staff at all levels;
- Advocates for the needs of the portfolio to decision-making bodies within UTL, at the University, and outside of the institution. Formulates and implements strategic plans for the portfolio in coordination with library and university-wide planning and assesses and continuously improves services. Prepares statistical, operational, and budget reports as required. Grant writing skills;
- Promotes UTL at local, national and international levels. Provides leadership in professional library associations and at professional conferences as appropriate;
- Serves as a member of the University Chief Librarian’s Executive Leadership Table and participates on relevant administrative and senior management committees as required;
- Represents the Library on issues relevant to the portfolio and supports a leadership role for the University of Toronto Libraries nationally and internationally;
- Participates in advancement activities by cultivating relationships with donors.

The ideal candidate will be expected to possess the following key competencies and personal attributes:

**Strategic Leadership**

The ideal candidate will:

- Be a visionary and a planner who shares and invites ideas and insights and inspires and engages others in pursuing shared goals;
- Possess an ability to develop, in a consultative style, a clear vision for the portfolio within the context of UTL’s strategic objectives and plans;

**Collegial Leadership**

The ideal candidate will:

- Have a mature understanding and appreciation of the collegial nature of the University and a demonstrated capacity to work within and promote a culture of compassion and connection;

**Relationship and Partnership Management**

The ideal candidate will:

- Have an ability to work collaboratively with faculty, visiting scholars and graduate and undergraduate students to support their research needs;
- Have an ability to meet with donors, alumni, and stakeholders, to develop and maintain long term relationships, and to attract funding;

**Administrative Management**

The ideal candidate will:

- Be an experienced administrator with strong analytical capabilities, insight, and judgment;
- Possess sound financial judgment and be able to support budget and financial planning;

**Required Qualifications:**

- A degree from an accredited Master’s level program in library and information studies;
- Demonstrated commitment to the values of inclusivity, diversity, equity, anti-racism and accessibility;
- Demonstrated deep understanding of information technology, data, and digital scholarship needs in research, teaching, learning and innovation. Knowledge of best practices and emerging developments;
- Significant administrative and managerial experience. Demonstrated planning, decision making and problem-solving skills. Proven ability to lead and to manage in a unionized environment;
- Demonstrated leadership abilities, particularly in team building and creating a common vision that brings together staff to offer excellent services for the benefit of a broad and diverse research and learning community;
- Demonstrated commitment to mentorship and staff development and growth. Capacity to thrive in an environment of change, and to nurture that capacity in others;
- Outstanding interpersonal, intercultural, and communication skills. Proven ability to promote respect and inclusion by working successfully with a wide variety of people and encouraging their participation and involvement. Demonstrated commitment to the values of inclusivity, diversity, equity and accessibility in academic libraries;
- Demonstrated planning, decision making and problem-solving skills. Flexible and able to manage multiple competing priorities in a timely fashion;
- Record of effective collaboration involving diverse faculty, library staff, students and other stakeholders. Proven ability to cultivate positive partnerships within libraries and with external partners and stakeholders.

**Preferred qualifications:**

- An undergraduate degree and/or an advanced subject degree in a relevant subject area;
- Relevant research experience and expertise. Publication, teaching or other significant contributions to the profession that demonstrates substantial subject mastery;
- Experience in Change Management;
- Significant experience in relevant professional associations;
- Successful record of fundraising through grants, and administration of grants.

Salary and Terms of Appointment: This is a seven-year renewable term position. It is also a permanent status stream position. The appointment begins on July 1, 2023, or as soon as possible after that date.

It is anticipated that this position will be filled at the Librarian III or IV level, subject to review and experience. Minimum salary: LIB III: $95,411; LIB IV: $112,418 (Salary is dependent on rank at hire and qualifications).

Benefits: We offer generous benefits packages to all employees. Additional information is available at: [https://people.utoronto.ca/careers/benefits/](https://people.utoronto.ca/careers/benefits/)

**Diversity Statement**

The University of Toronto embraces Diversity and is building a culture of belonging that increases our capacity to effectively address and serve the interests of our global community. We strongly encourage applications from Indigenous Peoples, Black and racialized persons, women, persons with disabilities, and people of diverse sexual and gender identities. We value applicants who have demonstrated a commitment to equity, diversity and inclusion and recognize that diverse perspectives, experiences, and expertise are essential to strengthening our academic mission.

University of Toronto Libraries’ Inclusion, Diversity and Equity Statement:
[https://www.library.utoronto.ca/inclusion-diversity-and-equity-statement](https://www.library.utoronto.ca/inclusion-diversity-and-equity-statement)

University of Toronto Libraries’ Anti-Racism Statement:
[https://www.library.utoronto.ca/anti-racism-statement](https://www.library.utoronto.ca/anti-racism-statement)

**Accessibility Statement**

The University strives to be an equitable and inclusive community, and proactively seeks to increase diversity among its community members. Our values regarding equity and diversity are linked with our unwavering commitment to excellence in the pursuit of our academic mission.

The University is committed to the principles of the Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act (AODA). As such, we strive to make our recruitment, assessment and selection processes as accessible as possible and provide accommodations as required for applicants with disabilities. If you require any accommodations at any point during the application and hiring process, please contact KBRS.

**Links**

University of Toronto Library System: [http://onesearch.library.utoronto.ca/]( http://onesearch.library.utoronto.ca/)
University of Toronto: [https://people.utoronto.ca/](https://people.utoronto.ca/)
Policies for librarians: [https://people.utoronto.ca/policies/](https://people.utoronto.ca/policies/)

**Job Location**

Toronto, ON
