+++
title = "Research Data Outreach Specialist"
employer = "Purdue University"
employerurl = "https://purdue.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.purdue.edu/job/West-Lafayette-Research-Data-Outreach-Specialist-IN-47906/1004696600/"
postdate = "2023-03-20"
archivedate = "2023-04-27"
draft = "false"
+++

**Research Data Outreach Specialist**

**Job Summary**

With emphasis on open science policy, Purdue University Libraries is looking for an experienced Research Data Outreach Specialist to join the Purdue University Research Data Repository (PURR) team. As part of a highly collaborative group, the Research Data Outreach Specialist will develop and provide education and training programs related to research data management, curation, sharing, and preservation to meet the needs of the Purdue University research community. The specialist will consult on topics across the research data lifecycle and assist in reviewing research data management plans for grant submissions. In this position, the specialist will develop and engage in outreach initiatives, raise awareness about PURR as a resource and foster relationships with departments, research centers and labs, and additionally establish partnerships within the Libraries. 

 

This position will pay between $41,400 - $57,500 commensurate with education and experience.

This position will be working onsite at the Purdue University campus in West Lafayette Indiana.

 

 
**What We're Looking For:**

**Education and Experience:**

- Master’s degree in library and information science from an ALA-accredited institution or closely related discipline
- Some experience with one or more of the following:
  - Experience with research data management, curation, and preservation practices, trends, policies, and issues in higher education.
  - Experience with digital repositories.
  - Experience providing instructional and outreach services.
-  Equivalent combinations of education and experience may be considered.

 

**Skills Needed:**

- Demonstrated commitment to and support for a culture of diversity, equity, and inclusion.
- Demonstrated competence with one or more methods, tools, and data domains relevant to the position. 
- Knowledge of open data principles, open science theory, practices or tools that assist with data sharing and reuse Excellent written and verbal communication skills 
- Strong desire and demonstrated ability to learn new skills, tools, and technologies as may be necessary at the start of the position and in adaptation to future developments.

 

**Additional Information:**

- All new hires will be expected to follow [Protect Purdue](https://bit.ly/3DH3z6f)
- Purdue University will not sponsor employment authorization for this position  
- A background check will be required for employment in this position
- FLSA: Exempt (Not Eligible for Overtime)
- Retirement Eligibility:  Defined Contribution Waiting Period
- Purdue University is an EEO/AA employer fully committed to achieving a diverse workforce. All individuals, including minorities, women, individuals with disabilities, and veterans are encouraged to apply
- Benefit Statement: Purdue University offers a substantial [Benefit Package](https://www.purdue.edu/hr/Benefits/employeebenefits/benefits_enrollment/pdf/summaries/2023/Benefits-summary-Admin-Prof-2023.pdf) including medical, dental, and vision insurance as well as a generous paid time off package for sick and vacation days

**Job Location**

West Lafayette, IN
