+++
title = "Research Data Management Librarian and Senior Research Data Management Librarian"
employer = "University of Virginia"
employerurl = "https://www.virginia.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://uva.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/UVAJobs/job/Charlottesville-VA/Research-Data-Management-Librarian_R0045206"
postdate = "2023-03-01"
archivedate = "2023-04-27"
draft = "false"
+++

**Research Data Management Librarian**

The University of Virginia (UVA) Library seeks a [Research Data Management Librarian and a Senior Research Data Management Librarian](https://uva.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/UVAJobs/job/Charlottesville-VA/Research-Data-Management-Librarian_R0045206) to support researchers at all levels and across all disciplines engaged in data-intensive research by providing data management support. The incumbents will provide consultation and support for data management, metadata production, data organization and preservation issues to researchers in partnership with library colleagues. The incumbents will support researchers in the development and implementation of data management plans, and will offer guidance on technical data management issues, including acquisition, transfer, and storage of data. In addition, they will support data discovery, managing data collections, and providing data literacy instruction. The incumbents will also contribute to and advise on the University Library's efforts to broadly serve the needs of researchers to manage, document, share, and preserve the products of their research, complying with sponsor mandates and changing norms for making data assets available and improving research reproducibility. 

The Research Data Management Librarians will develop and provide educational opportunities to support researchers at all proficiency levels, assessing needs, coordinating learning opportunities, and actively marketing content. This includes developing hands-on workshops on topics around data management (including data management planning and implementation, and data repository usage). The incumbents will also contribute to online instructional content by writing tutorials and providing access to all workshop materials.  

The positions will be members of the University Library’s [Research Data Services & Social, Natural, Engineering Sciences team](https://data.library.virginia.edu/) providing data management, data discovery, data wrangling, and statistical consulting services to support the full data lifecycle. The incumbents will collaborate with Library colleagues to stay abreast of current and anticipated data needs and to promote data skills throughout the Library, and to support data literacy across the University. The Research Data Management Librarians will partner with existing members of Research Data Services to work with multiple stakeholders across the institution and to contribute to data-related services via pan-university initiatives. 

**Required qualifications:** 

- Master's degree in library/Information Science or other relevant academic discipline, OR a Bachelor's degree and at least 4 years of related experience with data management, data repositories, data curation, and research. 
- Knowledge of foundational research data management principles and best practices, with a particular focus on the research data lifecycle. 
- Knowledge of emerging trends in research data. 
- Knowledge of open and reproducible research practices.  
- Excellent communication skills, with the ability to effectively communicate in all formats and adapt communication style to suit different audiences.   
- Demonstrated ability to provide public service in a collaborative environment.  
- Proficiency in public speaking and providing instruction, both formal and informal, to varying audiences and skill levels. 
- Demonstrated commitment to professional development and continuing to learn and evolve as a data professional.  
- Demonstrated commitment to fostering an environment of equity, diversity, and inclusion. 
- Willingness to learn a computational environment (e.g., Python, R, C) and version control (e.g., Git and GitHub) 

**Preferred Qualifications:**

- Four years of experience with data management, data repositories, data curation, and research along in addition to a Master’s degree in Library/Information Science or other relevant academic discipline OR a Bachelor’s degree and 8 years of experience. 
- Proficiency with a computational environment (e.g., Python, R, C).  
- Experience with data discovery, data acquisition and managing licensed data collections. 
- Knowledge of data discovery search strategies. 
- Experience with version control (e.g., Git and GitHub). 
- Experience delivering research support in an academic environment. 
- Experience working with others in a team environment. 

The UVA Library supports career development and provides opportunities for both formal and informal training as part of professional development. We are interested in reviewing candidates with a broad range and combination of experiences, education, and qualifications. We are dedicated to building a diverse, inclusive, and dynamic workplace, so if you are excited about this role but your past experience doesn’t align perfectly with every preferred qualification in the job description, we encourage you to apply anyway. 

Salary offered will be commensurate with experience, between $68K and $75K. 

Review of applicants will begin March 27, 2023 and the position will remain open until filled. 

To apply, please visit [UVA job board](https://uva.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/UVAJobs/job/Charlottesville-VA/Research-Data-Management-Librarian_R0045206)

For questions about the application process please contact Rhiannon O’Coin at rmo2r@virginia.edu

*The University of Virginia, including the UVA Health System which represents the UVA Medical Center, Schools of Medicine and Nursing, UVA Physician’s Group and the Claude Moore Health Sciences Library, are fundamentally committed to the diversity of our faculty and staff.  We believe diversity is excellence expressing itself through every person's perspectives and lived experiences.  We are equal opportunity and affirmative action employers. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to age, color, disability, gender identity or expression, marital status, national or ethnic origin, political affiliation, race, religion, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, veteran status, and family medical or genetic information.*

**Job Location**

Charlottesville, VA
