+++
title = "Social Science and Data Librarian"
employer = "San Diego State University"
employerurl = "https://www.sdsu.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://apply.interfolio.com/137645"
postdate = "2023-12-18"
archivedate = "2023-12-22"
draft = "false"
+++

**Social Science and Data Librarian**

The San Diego State University (SDSU) Library invites applications for a Social Science and Data Librarian, a 12-month, tenure-track position to be appointed at the rank of Senior Assistant Librarian, beginning in July 2024. The librarian in this position will provide advanced research assistance, information literacy instruction, as part of the Research, Instruction, and Outreach team, as well as support for collections services for academic programs in Political Science, Criminal Justice, Public Administration, and City Planning, as well as for research institutes and centers in these areas. This position also collaborates with other librarians in delivering services across related disciplines.

The SDSU Library has adopted a Diversity Plan to guide our efforts to realize an institutional commitment to equity, diversity, inclusion, and social justice https://library.sdsu.edu/diversity/library-plan Candidates must satisfy two or more of the eight Building on Inclusive Excellence (BIE) criteria (sacd.sdsu.edu/cie/bie).

This is a full-time, twelve-month, tenure track faculty position. Tenure is dependent upon continuing library service effectiveness, professional growth and development, and service to the University and community. Anticipated salary range: $74,280 - $77,508. Excellent benefits, including medical, dental, and vision plans, retirement package, as well as 24 vacation days per year.

**Full Position Description**

The San Diego State University (SDSU) Library invites applications for a Social Science and Data Librarian, a 12-month, tenure-track position to be appointed at the rank of Senior Assistant Librarian, beginning in July 2024. The librarian in this position will provide advanced research assistance, information literacy instruction, as part of the Research, Instruction, and Outreach team, as well as support for collections services for academic programs in Political Science, Criminal Justice, Public Administration, and City Planning, as well as for research institutes and centers in these areas. This position also collaborates with other librarians in delivering services across related disciplines. The best candidate for this position will create meaningful learning experiences within and beyond the classroom. We seek a creative, collaborative, forward-looking colleague who can support, strengthen, and expand partnerships across library departments and with colleagues across the university, encompassing campuses at SDSU Imperial Valley, SDSU Mission Valley, and the San Diego community, including the San Diego Health Information Partnership.

The SDSU Library supports, promotes, and extends the distinctive teaching, learning, scholarship, and community engagement initiatives of the university, especially as those are highlighted in the university [strategic plan](https://www.sdsu.edu/strategic-plan). The Library is committed to service and student-centered innovation, with recent initiatives including the Digital Humanities Center, build IT makerspace, and partnerships focused on student success, such as the Latinx Resource Center. The Library has also joined campus partners in Information Technology and the Division of Research and Innovation to strengthen [research data services](https://libguides.sdsu.edu/DataServices), an area of opportunity for this position. More information about the SDSU Library is available at [https://library.sdsu.edu/](https://library.sdsu.edu/) and more information about partnership programs and opportunities are available at [https://library.sdsu.edu/about-us/partners](https://library.sdsu.edu/about-us/partners).

SDSU is a large, public, diverse, urban university and a Hispanic-Serving Institution and Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-Serving Institution located on Kumeyaay land with a commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion. The university honors its residence on Kumeyaay land in its land acknowledgement and commitment to building a relationship with Indigenous peoples. Along with campus partners, the Library recently opened an Africana Studies Collection space that will serve as a hub for curricular and co-curricular programs designed to engage SDSU community members with these valuable circulating and special collections. The SDSU Library has adopted a [Diversity Plan](https://library.sdsu.edu/about/diversity-equity-inclusion/library-plan) to guide our efforts to realize an institutional commitment to equity, diversity, inclusion, and social justice.To meet the goals of this plan, we seek applicants with demonstrated experience in and/or commitment to teaching and working effectively with individuals from diverse backgrounds and historically underrepresented groups, including minorities, women, persons with disabilities, and protected veterans. Accommodations will be provided upon request.

**Primary Duties and Responsibilities**

The Social Sciences and Data Librarian will:

- Provide research consultations, critical information literacy instruction, and other curricular support to students and faculty in Political Science, Criminal Justice, Public Administration, City Planning, and related centers, institutes, or academic programs, both virtually and in-person.
- Keep abreast of relevant scholarship for current awareness of trends, developments, and best practices in librarianship and in library services for liaison areas.
- Develop services to assist patrons with the discovery, access, and use of government data such as census information and demographic data (e.g.National Justice Database, Bureau of Justice Statistics, National Transit Database).
- Develop library research collections by selecting and acquiring relevant materials in appropriate formats.
- Participate in the design and delivery of research data services in the library and as part of campus collaborations supporting the research enterprise.
- Engage in continuous learning in support of organizational values grounded in equity, inclusivity, belonging, and social justice.
- Build diverse collections to meet the research and curricular needs of undergraduate and graduate students and faculty in assigned areas.
- Deliver to students and faculty specialized instruction and reference consultations related to data collection, analysis, visualization, management and information literacy that cultivates critical thinking including an awareness of inequalities in information access and organization.
- Develops educational programs and instruction that cultivate critical information literacy including an awareness of inequities in information access and organization.
- Performs other duties as assigned.

**Qualifications**

**Qualifications Statement**

Research shows that women and individuals from underrepresented backgrounds often apply to jobs only if they meet 100% of the qualifications. We emphasize that the preferred qualifications are not required and that we are committed to helping our future colleagues develop the preferred skills. We encourage you to communicate how your work and other experiences fulfill the required qualifications in ways that may not be obvious.

**Required Qualifications**

We are seeking applicants with demonstrated experience in and/or commitment to teaching and working effectively with individuals from diverse backgrounds and members of underrepresented groups. Candidates must satisfy two or more of the eight Building on Inclusive Excellence (BIE) criteria. Candidates that meet BIE criteria: (a) are committed to engaging in service with underrepresented populations within the discipline, (b) have demonstrated knowledge of barriers for underrepresented students and faculty within the discipline, (c) have experience or have demonstrated commitment to teaching and mentoring underrepresented students, (d) have experience or have demonstrated commitment to integrating understanding of underrepresented populations and communities into research, (e) have experience in or have demonstrated commitment to extending knowledge of opportunities and challenges in achieving artistic/scholarly success to members of an underrepresented group, (f) have experience in or have demonstrated commitment to research that engages underrepresented communities, (g) have expertise or demonstrated commitment to developing expertise in cross-cultural communication and collaboration, and/or (h) have research interests that contribute to diversity and equal opportunity in higher education. Please indicate in a separate diversity statement how you meet at least two (2) of these criteria. Additional guidance on our BIE program for applicants is available at [https://sacd.sdsu.edu/cie/guidance-candidates](https://sacd.sdsu.edu/cie/guidance-candidates).

The SDSU Library Diversity Statement is available at [https://library.sdsu.edu/diversity/library-statement](https://library.sdsu.edu/diversity/library-statement)

In addition to meeting at least two of the BIE criteria, other required qualifications include the following:

- Graduate degree from an ALA-accredited program or foreign equivalent.
- Demonstrated early career librarian experience, such as:
 - supporting information needs and research methods in social sciences, such as political science or criminal justice, or related interdisciplinary fields.
 - providing instruction in-person and/or virtually
- Demonstrated potential for meeting the requirements for tenure and promotion based on library service, professional growth, and service to the University and community.

**Preferred Qualifications**

- Competence and sensitivity in working at a university in which students, faculty, and staff are broadly diverse with regard to many facets of identity, including but not limited to gender, ethnicity, nationality, sexual orientation, age, and religion.
- Experience with collection development, including familiarity with information resources relevant to the social sciences.
- Familiarity or demonstrated experience with using inclusive pedagogies that engage students.
- Experience providing reference and research services in-person and/or virtually to individuals or groups of students and faculty.
- Demonstrated knowledge and experience with instruction, information literacy, and assessment of library services and resources.
- Data analysis skills, ability to gather, assess, interpret, and present quantitative and qualitative data for varied audiences.

SDSU is the oldest institution of higher education in the San Diego region, with a campus and microsites in San Diego and locations in Southern California’s Imperial Valley and Tbilisi in the Republic of Georgia. The highly diverse campus community has a student population of approximately 36,000. SDSU is included in the Carnegie Foundation’s Doctoral Universities: High Research Activity category. Established in 1897, SDSU offers bachelor degrees in 97 areas, masters in 84 and doctorates in 23. See [http://www.sdsu.edu](http://www.sdsu.edu/) for more information. SDSU is a large, diverse, urban university and Hispanic-Serving Institution with a commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusive excellence. Our campus community is diverse in many ways, including race, religion, color, sex, age, disability, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, national origin, pregnancy, medical condition, and covered veteran status. We strive to build and sustain a welcoming environment for all.

The minimum salary for this position is based on the current CSU salary schedule for [Sr. Assistant Librarian](https://www.calstate.edu/csu-system/careers/compensation/Pages/SalaryScheduleDetails.aspx?RecordId=52197#-Keyword=librarian-Class=0-CBID=R03-Date=1-PLYear=2023-PLNumber=2303-Recs=15) and may be revised based on contract collective bargaining. The anticipated salary range is from $74,280 to $77,500. Salary placement will be based on the selected candidate’s qualifications and experience, and salaries higher than the published maximums may be offered in limited circumstances. San Diego State University offers a rich benefits package that constitutes a major portion of total compensation. For benefits information, click [https://bfa.sdsu.edu/hr/jobs/benefits](https://bfa.sdsu.edu/hr/jobs/benefits).

As part of its commitment to a safe and equitable “OneSDSU” community, SDSU requires that individuals seeking faculty employment provide at the time of application authorization to conduct background checks if they become a finalist for the position; applications without this authorization will be considered incomplete and not considered.

A background check (including a criminal records check) must be completed before any candidate can be offered a position with the CSU. Failure to satisfactorily complete the background check may affect the application status of applicants or the continued employment of current CSU employees who apply for the position.

The person holding this position is considered a “mandated reporter” under the California Child Abuse and Neglect Reporting Act and is required to comply with the requirements set forth in CSU Executive Order 1083 as a condition of employment.


**Job Location**

San Diego, CA
