+++
title = "Digital Research Support Specialist"
employer = "University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill"
employerurl = "https://www.unc.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://library.unc.edu/hr/employment/digital-research-support-specialist-digital-research-services/"
postdate = "2023-10-26"
archivedate = "2023-12-22"
draft = "false"
+++

Position Title: University Library Technician – Advanced

Working Title: Digital Research Support Specialist

Hiring Range: $46,772 – $54,776

Primary Purpose of Organizational Unit

The University Libraries aspires to set the standard for public university research libraries in the digital age.

As one of the premier libraries in the South, we are an essential partner in the research, education, clinical care, and public service missions of UNC-Chapel Hill. The library system includes 10 on-campus Libraries, with nearly 10 million volumes, rich archival collections, and a growing investment in digital collections.

The University Libraries serves campus and broader communities that reflect the socioeconomic, ethnic, and religious diversity of the state of North Carolina, and we maintain a welcoming, inclusive, and open educational and workplace climate for all. We strive to create an environment of respect and collaboration where vision and innovation can flourish. Learn more about our Strategic Framework including our pillars, values, and priorities by visiting [https://library.unc.edu/about/strategic-framework/](https://library.unc.edu/about/strategic-framework/).

**Position Summary**

The Digital Research Support Specialist is a support staff position within the University Libraries’ Digital Research Services (DRS) department. DRS provides specialized research assistance and instruction to Library patrons with a focus on technology-driven services such as geographic information systems, numeric data services, data management, digital humanities, and data visualization. The department provides research support consultations and staffs a public service point in Davis Library with graduate student data consultants who assist with walk-in questions.

The Digital Research Support Specialist (DRSS) will contribute to the work of Digital Research Services by managing first tier research support services. This includes overseeing the Data Services help desk, supervising graduate student workers, and project management. In addition to staffing the service desk, graduate student data consultants work on projects for faculty members. Projects may include updating course materials, supporting students, or assisting with research projects. The Digital Research Support Specialist will manage these projects.

This position will also directly assist Library patrons with first tier research inquiries related to digital research tools and methods supported by DRS, including geographic information systems, numeric data services, and data visualization.

The Digital Research Support Specialist will hire, train, and supervise the student consultants that provide first-tier research support. The person in this position will coordinate staffing at the service desk and will manage the schedule and student budget. They will also collaborate with the Library’s Desktop Support unit and other DRS staff members to ensure adequate hardware and software for the computer lab.

This position will coordinate outreach and communication efforts for Digital Research Services by serving as the department’s primary contact with the University Libraries Communications department.

The DRSS will organize workshops, programs, tours, and events for Library Data Services. They will maintain the public calendar of events, schedule Library spaces, coordinate speakers, and ensure proper technology setup and furniture arrangement for programs and events.
    
**Minimum Education and Experience**

High school diploma or equivalency and two years of experience in library services, office support, or related field; or equivalent combination of training and experience.
    
**Minimum Education and Experience Requirements**

- Strong analytical skills, especially the ability to analyze data sets to draw conclusions.
- Excellent communication skills, including the ability to write and speak clearly while conveying complex ideas.
- Strong commitment to customer service
- Attention to detail.
- Experience with data processing and/or visualization/mapping and familiarity with methods for data preparation and analysis.
- Proficient in data/mapping/visualization software such as Excel, Tableau, QGIS, and/or the Esri software suite.
- Excellent communication skills, including the ability to write and speak clearly while conveying complex ideas

    
**Preferred Qualifications, Competencies, and Experience**

- Some familiarity with relevant programming languages such as SQL, R, and/or Python
- Project management skills
- Knowledge of tools and methods used in digital humanities.
    
**Job Location**

Chapel Hill, NC
