+++
title = "Policy and International Affairs (PIA) Librarian"
employer = "Princeton University"
employerurl = "https://princeton.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://puwebp.princeton.edu/AcadHire/apply/application.xhtml?listingId=29061"
postdate = "2023-02-13"
archivedate = "2023-03-30"
draft = "false"
+++

**Policy and International Affairs (PIA) Librarian**

Princeton University Library (PUL) seeks an energetic, creative librarian to provide research assistance and collection development to support students and researchers in international affairs, public policy and education. This position has collection development responsibility for education-related topics. 
 
Reporting to the Head of Stokes Library, the Policy and International Affairs (PIA) Librarian is part of the social sciences team in the Data, Research, and Teaching Services (DaRTS) division, and the primary liaison for undergraduate students at the School of Public and International Affairs (SPIA). This position works with students, faculty, and staff in international affairs, public policy, politics, economics, and related social science fields.
 
Core responsibilities include conducting research consultations and teaching data workshops using policy-relevant sources. Additional responsibilities include course-based instruction, outreach, developing research guides, and implementation of workshops related to data analysis and bibliographic management. The ability to leverage data analysis tools and a strong understanding of qualitative and quantitative methods in policy and international affairs is critical. Collaboration with other librarians and specialists is essential for this role. 
 
Library collection responsibilities include collection building; managing funds and approval plans; advising on preservation, digitization, and maintenance, including offsite storage. This position collaborates with units across the library and represents PUL in professional meetings and partnerships.

PUL is one of the world's leading research libraries. It employs a dedicated and knowledgeable staff of more than 300 professional and support staff working in a large central library, 9 specialized branches, and 3 storage facilities. The Library supports a diverse community of 5,200 undergraduates, 2,700 graduate students, 1,200 faculty members, and many visiting scholars. Its holdings include more than 7 million printed volumes, 5 million manuscripts, 2 million non-print items, and extensive collections of digital text, data, and images. Further information: [http://library.princeton.edu](http://library.princeton.edu).  Information about the School of Public and International Affairs (SPIA) is at [https://spia.princeton.edu](https://spia.princeton.edu)
 
**Required Qualifications:**

- ALA-accredited MLS degree and work experience related to international affairs, public administration, politics, public policy, economics or sociology OR an advanced degree in any of these fields
- Work experience in a research library or comparable academic setting including conducting instruction, research consultations and outreach
- Broad knowledge of the field of policy and international affairs, including scholarly resources and bibliographic tools, trends in digital scholarship, data analysis and relevant qualitative or quantitative methods
- Excellent interpersonal skills, project management skills and the ability to work successfully and collegially with a diverse group of scholars and colleagues
- Experience using and teaching relevant and emerging data tools, especially R, Stata, NVivo and/or Tableau 
 
The successful candidate will be appointed to an appropriate Librarian rank depending upon qualifications and experience. 

PUL is committed to recruiting a diverse workforce and advancing the University's commitment to racial equity within our community and in the world. We encourage candidates from all diverse backgrounds and life experiences to apply for our positions. To find out more about PUL's work towards greater inclusivity, equity, and diversity, please see PUL's "About" page.

**Job Location**

Princeton, NJ
