+++
title = "Social  Sciences Librarian"
employer = "Vanderbilt University"
employerurl = "https://www.vanderbilt.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://ecsr.fa.us2.oraclecloud.com/hcmUI/CandidateExperience/en/sites/CX_1/job/10004645/?utm_medium=jobshare"
postdate = "2023-12-11"
archivedate = "2023-12-21"
draft = "false"
+++

**Social Sciences Librarian**

Vanderbilt University and the Vanderbilt Libraries are in an exciting time of transformation. With new leadership at the Chancellor, Provost and University Librarian levels, the Libraries are re-envisioning the future of library services at Vanderbilt. Through radical collaboration we seek to deepen student and faculty engagement with the libraries, equip students for life-long information proficiency, increase faculty research impact, create more opportunities for interdisciplinary experimentation, and optimize access to collections and resources, including marginalized and hidden histories and cultures. 

We are seeking a team member to help us educate the next generation of leaders and enable research that solves our most pressing problems. We are looking for an innovative and user-centered problem solver ready to join our collaborative environment and transform library services. The Social Science Librarian works with a team of subject librarians in Central Library, one of nine campus libraries within the Jean and Alexander Heard Libraries, to support the research and teaching mission of the Vanderbilt College of Arts and Science. Working across departments as well as with university trans-disciplinary programs, the Social Science Librarian will be the primary liaison for the Economics and Communication Studies departments, as well as support the use of an array of tools and frameworks to create, process, and analyze data.

**Duties and Responsibilities**

- Provides expert, in-depth reference, consultation, and information services to the Vanderbilt University community, in particular the Economics and Communication Studies departments
- Actively engages with the faculty and students in all learning, teaching, and research contexts, whether physically located anywhere on campus or virtually based
- Helps build and deliver an information literacy program that is integrated into the humanities curricula in A&S, first-year and Immersion programs, and especially Economics and Communication Studies 
- Manages the Economics, Communication Studies, and Social Science data resources and collections and accompanying budgets, while building collections through selection of materials in all formats that further diversity, equity, inclusion, belonging, and access.
- Identifies and develops outreach and engagement events that are aligned with campus strategic initiatives.
- Seeks opportunities for collaboration around teaching and research, in particular with campus partners and/or library colleagues on grant-funded initiatives or projects
- Represents the library locally, regionally, and nationally
- Actively contributes to the information science profession in the area(s) of economics, communication studies, information literacy, pedagogy (digital and otherwise), among other areas of scholarly interest in the social science, while also keeping abreast of latest developments in these areas and other related trends in academic librarianship, and in the social sciences

**Qualifications**

- 0 to 5 years of experience in an academic research library.
- Breadth of knowledge of scholarly research trends and methodological approaches in the social sciences, which may include undergraduate, and/or graduate degree in a social sciences subject area.
- Knowledge of current research practices and issues in the social sciences, especially data science, open research, research impact, and data visualization.   
- Knowledge of and/or willingness to skill-up in statistical software and coding languages (e.g. R, Python, Stata, SPSS, SAS) and providing informed instruction in specialized methods (e.g. statistical techniques, text/data mining, sentiment analysis, network analysis, GIS software).
- Commitment to diversity, equality, inclusion, access, and belonging in building, maintaining, and delivering library collections and services.
- Knowledge of and/or willing to learn collecting and maintaining datasets for research and teaching.
- Experience in or willingness to learn collection development and management, including managing a subject materials acquisition fund.
- Knowledge and/or interest in using emerging technologies to enhance the delivery of information services.
- Outstanding communication skills and an ability to demonstrate effective teaching and presenting.
- Ability to work independently and collaboratively on teams.
- Ability to manage multiple priorities in a fast-paced and changing environment.

**Commitment to Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion**

At Vanderbilt University, we are intentional about and assume accountability for fostering advancement and respect for equity, diversity, and inclusion for all students, faculty, and staff. Our commitment to diversity makes us who we are.  We have created a community that celebrates differences and lets individuality thrive. As part of this commitment, we actively value diversity in our workplace and learning environments as we seek to take advantage of the rich backgrounds and abilities of everyone. The diverse voices of Vanderbilt represent an invaluable resource for the University in its efforts to fulfill its mission and strive to be an example of excellence in higher education.

Vanderbilt University is an equal-opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, or status as a protected veteran, or any other characteristic protected by law.

Please note, all candidates selected for an offer of employment are subject to pre-employment background checks, which may include but are not limited to, based on the role for which they have been selected: criminal history, education verification, social media review, motor vehicle records, credit history, and professional license verification.

**ABOUT US**

Vanderbilt is a community of talented and diverse staff & faculty!

At Vanderbilt University , our work - regardless of title or role - is in service to an important and noble mission in which every member of our community serves in advancing knowledge and transforming lives on a daily basis. Located in Nashville, Tennessee, on a 330+ acre campus and arboretum dating back to 1873, Vanderbilt is proud to have been named as one of “America’s Best Large Employers” as well as a top employer in Tennessee and the Nashville metropolitan area by Forbes for several years running. We welcome those who are interested in learning and growing professionally with an employer that strives to create, foster and sustain opportunities as an employer of choice through:

- Working and growing together as a community of communities... we are One Vanderbilt.
- Providing a work environment where every staff and faculty member can be their authentic and best self, while providing the resources and opportunities to learn and grow.
- Encouraging development, collaboration, and partnership both internally and externally while fostering the value that every member of the Vanderbilt community can lead and grow regardless of title or position.
We understand you have a choice when choosing where to work and pursue a career. We understand you are unique and have a story. We want to hear it. We encourage you to apply today so that you might become a part of our story.

**Job Location**

Nashville, TN
