+++
title = "Survey Methodologist & Project Designer"
employer = "University of Minnesota"
employerurl = "https://www.umn.edu"
moreinfourl = "http://jobsearch.cla.umn.edu/355693"
postdate = "2023-05-23"
archivedate = "2023-05-26"
draft = "false"
+++

**Survey Methodologist & Project Designer**

**About the Job**

**Objective/ Overview:**

This position is located in the Research Support Services team in LATIS.  The employee is responsible for many components of research project support, and will work directly with faculty, graduate students, and staff to advance human subjects research in the College of Liberal Arts (CLA).  In coordination with the Research Support Coordinator and other members of the LATIS Research group, the employee collaborates with other teams both within LATIS and across the University to broaden and strengthen Research Support Service offerings.

A successful candidate will have knowledge of survey and experiment methodologies, will have experience organizing and prioritizing project demands, and will be able to communicate effectively with researchers and support staff. Candidates must be able to work collaboratively to address researchers’ needs under the guidance of the Research Support Coordinator.  Strong writing and speaking skills, conscientiousness, ability to take initiative, and a commitment to serving the research community are expected.

Indigenous, LGBTQIA+, gender nonconforming, people of color, women, and members of other historically underrepresented communities are highly encouraged to apply, as are people with non-traditional academic or experiential backgrounds.

To learn more about this position and about working in LATIS visit us at [z.umn.edu/latisjobs](z.umn.edu/latisjobs)

**Compensation:**

Mid $50,000s - $75,000 depending on qualifications and experience.

**Location:** 

This is a hybrid position.  Office location is in Blegen Hall on Twin Cities - west bank campus. 


**Major Job Duties:**

Survey and Experimental Methodology Consultation (40%)

- Consult directly with faculty, graduate students, and staff on human-subjects data collection methodologies, including design of survey instruments, experiments, and other data collection tools.
- Guide researchers on the planning, design, and implementation of human-subjects research studies.
- Advise researchers on developing IRB protocols that balance open science objectives with protection of participants.
- Advocate for and implement best practices and technologies for online and in-person data collection.

Research Project Development and Management (45%)

- Develop, deploy and manage web-based or technology-enhanced surveys, experiments, and other research projects.
- Establish and implement procedures for testing and validating research instruments.
- Manage and develop technical design for data collection instruments in software such as Qualtrics, Inquisit, and MTurk.
- Manage collaboration with other members of LATIS Research for project development tasks and timelines.
- In collaboration with other LATIS Research staff, integrate data management best practices within project design and development

Service Development (10%)

- Research new developments in data collection methodologies and technologies.
- In collaboration with Coordinator and other LATIS Research staff, develop new procedures and tools to streamline data collection, maintenance, and analysis.
- Plan and advise on potential participant management approaches for CLA researchers, in coordination with managers of existing participant pools in CLA and other closely related colleges.

Professional Development (5%)

To stay at the forefront of data collection methodology, research, and technology developments, attend professional conferences and trainings related to technology-enhanced research in liberal arts fields.
This position offers flexibility to pursue research projects related to the methodologies supported by the position, according to personal and professional interests.  While publication is not required, it is encouraged and supported. 

Note: Don’t meet every single requirement? In LATIS we are dedicated to building a diverse, inclusive and authentic workplace, so if you’re excited about this role but your past experience doesn’t align perfectly with every qualification in the job description, we encourage you to apply anyways. You may be just the right candidate for this or other roles. 
 

**Required Qualifications:**

- BA/BS degree and at least 5 years experience or advanced degree and 3 years experience or a combination of related education and work experience to equal 9 years.

**Preferred Qualifications:**

- Master’s degree or terminal degree (PhD, EdD) in a social science field.
- Minimum of one year experience providing computational research support to liberal arts researchers.
- Preferred candidates will have direct experience with liberal arts survey and experimental research techniques and will have experience using and supporting statistical software such as R, SPSS, Stata, and SAS. 
- Must be able to work collaboratively to address faculty and researcher needs in consultation with the Research Support Coordinator.
- Candidate should have knowledge of experimental design, survey research, data analysis, and data management.

**About the Department**

**Program/Unit Description**

Liberal Arts Technologies and Innovation Services (LATIS) exists to elevate liberal arts teaching, learning, and research. We provide discipline-specific expertise, facilities, and technology services to spur innovation in the liberal arts and further the college’s mission by enhancing learning, advancing research, developing scholars, improving processes, and strengthening connections. Our values include: thriving at the intersections of liberal arts and technology, continually adapting to a changing environment, and believing in relationships as much as outcomes.

The LATIS work environment is dynamic, creative, and collaborative. Teamwork is core to how we operate and get things done. Within this environment, it is important to have strong communication skills, be comfortable with ambiguity, and be flexible during times of change. We encourage and foster creative thinking and new ideas. 

**About the College of Liberal Arts**

Home to the arts, social sciences and humanities disciplines and programs, the College of Liberal Arts is the largest college in the University of Minnesota and comprises 31 academic departments, and over 20 interdisciplinary research centers and administrative/support units. CLA has over 1,300 faculty and staff spanning research, teaching, advising, outreach, and administrative functions. CLA units reside in over twenty buildings on the East Bank and West Bank of the Twin Cities campus. CLA enrolls nearly 13,000 undergraduate students, over 40% of the undergraduate enrollment on the Twin Cities campus, 1,400 graduate students, and has an annual all-funds budget of $290 million.

CLA is a destination for curious, compassionate individuals who are committed to making our increasingly interdependent and diverse global community work for everyone. That [foundational commitment begins in our CLA Constitution](https://cla.umn.edu/about/our-mission-values). CLA is committed to increasing enrollment of underrepresented and under-resourced students, diversifying our faculty across all disciplines, recruiting, and retaining a diverse staff, and promoting the expression and exploration of diverse perspectives and viewpoints—so that we all gain the background knowledge and analytical skills we need to understand and respect differences.

[Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in CLA](https://cla.umn.edu/about/diversity-equity-and-inclusion-cla)

[Working in CLA](https://cla.umn.edu/about/working-cla)

[The Benefits of Working at the U](https://humanresources.umn.edu/find-job/benefitsattheu)

**Job Location**

Minneapolis, MN
