+++
title = "Head of FORS Data Archive Service"
employer = "FORS"
employerurl = "https://forscenter.ch/"
moreinfourl = "https://www.unil.ch/carrieres/emplois"
postdate = "2023-03-27"
archivedate = "2023-04-27"
draft = "false"
+++

**Head of FORS Data Archive Service**

Looking for a new career opportunity? Want to play a key role at the forefront of open science and research infrastructure in Switzerland? FORS, the Swiss Centre of Expertise in the Social Sciences, is looking for a dynamic and motivated person to lead its national digital data archive for the social sciences. FORS is a national competence center with the mission of: archiving and disseminating data for secondary analysis; collecting and distributing original national and international survey data; contributing to the development of national research infrastructure; and generally providing services and support to researchers in Switzerland.

**Information on the position**

Starting date: September 1st, 2023, or negotiable

Contract: Permanent contract

Workplace: Géopolis on the campus of the University of Lausanne

Salary: According to the University of Lausanne salary scheme.

**Job description**

The head of the FORS Data Archive Services group oversees the acquisition, curation, and dissemination of social science research data produced in Switzerland, using the technical platform SWISSUbase. Main responsibilities include:

- management of service activities and team;
- planning, development, and implementation of archive policies, procedures, and projects in accordance with best practices and international standards;
- development of tools and services for the benefit of the social science research community;
- representation of the FORS Data Archive Services within the operational group of the SWISSUbase consortium, as well as within CESSDA-ERIC; and
- outreach, networking, and monitoring within Switzerland and Europe.

**The ideal candidate**

You have at least a master’s degree in the social sciences or a related discipline, or a degree in information/archival science. Ideally, you have at least five years of experience in data archiving, data management, and the operational aspects of research infrastructures. You have strong leadership, interpersonal, and technical skills, and you are dynamic and highly motivated. Competence in French, German, and English are desirable.

**Work environment**

FORS offers attractive working conditions in a stimulating and multilingual environment. More information on FORS at www.forscenter.ch.

Application deadline: June 1, 2023

We expect your full application (CV, motivation letter, and diplomas) ideally in a single pdf, submitted only at: https://www.unil.ch/carrieres/emplois-> postes ouverts.

**Job Location**

Lausanne, Switzerland
