+++
title = "Data Support & Public Services Librarian"
employer = "Duke University, The Fuqua School of Business"
employerurl = "https://library.fuqua.duke.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://library.fuqua.duke.edu/about/data-support-librarian.htm"
postdate = "2023-06-08"
archivedate = "2023-06-28"
draft = "false"
+++

**Data Support & Public Services Librarian**

**Classification**: Professional Library Staff - 40 hours/week,
on-site\*

\* Initial 6 months on-site is required - hybrid schedule options
considered after 6 months.

**Unit/Department**: The Ford Library, The Fuqua School of Business

**Supervisor**: Library Director

**Overview**

The Data Support and Public Services Librarian provides support,
instruction for, and assistance using Ford Library's data assets both
internally and externally to library staff, student and faculty
researchers, and other members of the communities at the Fuqua School of
Business and Duke University. The Data Support and Public Services
Librarian also serves on the Ford Library Data Services and Reference
Teams and assists with the deployment, curation, management, and
promotion of the Library's data assets.

In their public services role, the Data Support and Public Services
Librarian directly assists members of the Fuqua and Duke communities as
a member of the Library Reference Team with the discovery of, access to,
and use of library data assets.

**Specific Responsibilities**

**Provides internal support for library data assets -- serves as a member of the Ford Library's Data Services Team. (50%)**

**Examples:**

-   Updates, maintains, and creates data collections in Duke University
    cloud-based or network environments

-   Assists with the acquisition and deployment of new data resources as
    needed

-   Maintains contact with library data vendors and verifies the
    integrity of acquired & subscribed data

-   Updates and maintains records for library data assets in selected
    library discovery portals

-   Works with Fuqua School IT staff to maintain library installations
    of data analysis and database client software

-   Networks and collaborates with data services colleagues across Duke
    University and its libraries to enhance knowledge of data holdings
    and best practices for data support

**Provides external support for library data assets -- serves as a member of the Library Reference Team to assist users with the discovery of, access to, and use of library data assets. (40%)**

**Examples:**

-   Responds in a timely and accurate manner to end user requests for
    both short-term and long-term support

-   Provides end user technical support and training as needed for data
    analysis software tools, and data-intensive research platforms, e.g.
    WRDS, FactSet, Bloomberg, Refinitiv Workspace

-   Consults with and provides support to Fuqua School faculty & PhD
    research by assisting with data discovery, data management and
    integration, and providing limited project support as needed.

-   Engages in continuous professional development to enhance and
    acquire skills in data management and analysis.

**Other relevant duties as assigned (10%)**

As part of Team Fuqua, and a member of a small, but highly effective
team of library and information professionals, any member of the Ford
Library staff may be called upon by the Director or their supervisor
from time-to-time to perform duties outside the scope of the
responsibilities in their specific job descriptions.

**Required & Preferred Qualifications**

**Education/Training**

Master\'s degree (MLS, MSLS, or MSIS) from an ALA-accredited library or
information science program.

**Required Experience**

-   Two years of relevant experience working in a library environment;
    or relevant experience in a graduate internship or other relevant
    employment in social sciences fields or organizations.

-   Excellent written and verbal communication skills, as well as "soft
    skills" \-- particularly the ability to provide courteous and
    accurate end user support are required.

-   Applicants must have experience using, and supporting users with at
    least two or more of the following: R, RStudio, SAS, STATA, SPSS,
    Python and its IDEs.

-   Working knowledge of the MS Office Suite

-   Applicants must have demonstrated experience working effectively in
    teams and independently.

-   Applicants must have demonstrated experience in adapting quickly to
    changing technologies, and a commitment to continuous learning.

**Preferred Experience**

-   Experience working in an academic or special library environment is
    preferred.

-   Experience with library public services is preferred, with
    preference given to experience in project consulting and research
    support.

-   Experience working with one or more of the following, or similar
    data-intensive research platforms is preferred: WRDS, FactSet,
    Bloomberg, Refinitiv Workspace, Capital IQ.

-   Experience using VS Code or a similar IDE to write and edit HTML,
    PHP, BASH shell scripts as well as familiarity with the Linux CLI,
    and supporting simple web applications is preferred.

**Salary & Benefits**

Salary dependent on qualifications and experience. Comprehensive
benefits package includes 20 days' accrued vacation, 12 days accrued
sick leave, and 14 holidays; health, dental, disability and life
insurance and support for professional development and training.
Complete details on Duke benefits can be found at:
<https://issuu.com/workingatduke/docs/benefits_new_hire_guide>

**The statements above are intended to describe the general nature and
level of work being performed by the employee in this position. They are
not intended to be construed as an exhaustive list of all
responsibilities, duties, and skills required of a person in this
position.**

**Job Location**

Durham, NC
