+++
title = "Digital Preservation Librarian"
employer = "New York University"
employerurl = "https://www.nyu.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://apply.interfolio.com/136684"
postdate = "2023-12-19"
archivedate = "2023-12-22"
draft = "false"
+++

**Digital Preservation Librarian**

In compliance with NYC's Pay Transparency Act, the annual base salary range for this position is $70,000 - $110,000. This pay range represents base pay only (for 9 months OR for 12 months) and excludes any additional items such as incentives, bonuses, clinical compensation, or other items. New York University considers factors such as (but not limited to) scope and responsibilities of the position, candidate's work experience, education/training, key skills, internal peer equity, as well as market and organizational considerations when extending an offer.
Digital Preservation Librarian

**Description**

The New York University (NYU) Division of Libraries is currently accepting applications for a tenure-track faculty Digital Preservation Librarian within the Barbara Goldsmith Preservation & Conservation Department. The Digital Preservation Librarian will collaborate closely with colleagues in departments across the division to facilitate the preservation of NYU Libraries' digital collections, including born digital and digitized collections.

The inaugural incumbent will assess existing practices, and unify strategies and processes across the library. They will contribute to programs that support current work and look ahead to the evolving collection needs. Documenting and maintaining digital preservation policies, ensuring their ongoing relevance and dissemination, will be a continuing responsibility of the position.

The Digital Preservation Librarian will create opportunities to engage colleagues across NYU by sharing insights on digital preservation standards and issues. This includes leading communities of practice, developing informational resources, and conducting consultations with faculty, staff, and students. This role requires active participation in local and international groups dedicated to digital preservation, staying abreast of field developments, and representing NYU Libraries in membership organizations.

Faculty librarians pursue their own research, contributing their expertise, experiences, creative or artistic outputs, and investigations to build new knowledge and make cultural contributions. The person in this position has wide latitude in determining their own research agenda in their chosen areas.

**NYU Cluster Hiring Initiative**

NYU Libraries is participating in the NYU Faculty Cluster Hiring Initiative to build a more diverse faculty community that seeks to recruit, welcome, and support new library faculty working across the Division on timely themes of social importance, such as Inequality and Anti-racism, Population Health and Health Equity, Open Science and the Public Good, and Urban Environments and Politics. 

This particular position is part of our Transformative Humanities for All: Building and Sharing the Cultural Record cluster. This cluster will enhance NYU Libraries’ capabilities to support academic and non-academic knowledge production in the humanities and related disciplines at NYU and beyond. The positions in this cluster build upon the advancement of the humanities. The scholarship conducted by the faculty in these cluster positions will center a transformative approach to building and sharing knowledge through critical, ethical inquiries that focus on the (in)visibility of epistemologies from historically and continuously underrepresented communities. 

The practicality of this cluster’s work will reside in fostering knowledge creation, identifying and acknowledging current and pre-existing knowledge, and focusing on the relationships between the academy and those communities most implicated by any particular area or approach to knowledge creation. 

The goal of this cluster is to build a transformative humanities that exists beyond the bounds of what has been known as traditional epistemological processes in the interest of more equitable shared knowledge. [For full details about the Libraries cluster hiring initiative, see this link](https://library.nyu.edu/about/who-we-are/career-opportunities/nyu-faculty-cluster-hiring-initiative/).

**About New York University Libraries**

The Division of Libraries values diversity among its faculty, is committed to building a culturally diverse intellectual community, and strongly encourages applications from members of underrepresented communities. We are proud of our organizational culture and are committed​ ​to​ ​building​ ​and sustaining​​ a ​diverse,​ ​inclusive,​ ​and equitable​ ​organization​ that supports a sense of belonging for the staff and communities we serve. 

For more information regarding the Libraries’ commitment to Inclusion, Diversity, Belonging, Equity, and Accessibility (IDBEA), see the [Libraries’ Mission & Values Statement](https://library.nyu.edu/about/general/values/), our [Diversity and Inclusion Values Statement](https://library.nyu.edu/about/general/values/diversity-inclusion/), and our [Commitment to Anti-Racism](https://library.nyu.edu/about/general/values/anti-racism/).

Libraries at New York University serve the school’s 40,000 students and faculty and contain more than 5 million volumes. The Libraries supports NYU’s vision to become the first true Global Network University by collaborating with and providing services to our 11 global academic centers and our “portal campuses” in Abu Dhabi and Shanghai. New York University Libraries is a member of the Association of Research Libraries, the OCLC Research Library Partnership, and the HathiTrust. The Libraries participate in a variety of consortia and collaborate closely with Columbia University Libraries and the New York Public Library through the Manhattan Research Library Consortium.

**Salary/Benefits:** 

This position is open rank with faculty status and includes an attractive benefits package, including five weeks of annual vacation. This is a hybrid position, 80-60% on site, 20-40% remote.

The typical beginning annual base salary for a faculty member joining the Division of Libraries as a Full Curator in the academic year 2023-2024 is $102,500.

The typical beginning annual base salary for a faculty member joining the Division of Libraries as an Associate Curator in the academic year 2023-2024 is $90,000.

The typical beginning annual base salary for a faculty member joining the Division of Libraries as an Assistant Curator in the academic year 2023-2024 is $86,100.

The typical beginning annual base salary for a faculty member joining the Division of Libraries as a Library Associate in the academic year 2023-2024 is $82,000.
Qualifications

**Required:**

- Minimum one graduate degree (Master’s level or higher), conferred by start date, for consideration. A second graduate degree will be required to be eligible for tenure. One of the two eventual graduate degrees must be an ALA-accredited MLS/MLIS or equivalent.
- Demonstrated commitment to inclusion, diversity, belonging, equity, and accessibility (IDBEA).
- Demonstrated knowledge of current and emerging digital preservation strategies, concepts, best practices, and standards 
- Demonstrated interest in facilitating collaboration across the institution with individuals holding varied perspectives and technical skills.
- Demonstrated commitment to self-directed learning and applying new theories, skills, and/or tools.

**Preferred:** 

- Demonstrated knowledge of the Open Archival Information System (OAIS) reference model and familiarity with trustworthy digital repository standards. 
- Demonstrated knowledge of Digital Preservation metadata schemas including, MODS, METS, PREMIS, or Dublin Core.
- Demonstrated knowledge of archival theory, and practices related to digital curation and preservation.
- Experience with writing and maintaining documentation, including policy documents, workflow practices, and technical specifications.
- Familiarity with file format characterization and analysis, such as tools commonly used in digital preservation workflows, software emulation, or digital forensics.
- Demonstrated ability to manage projects and meet deadlines and objectives.

**Job Location**

New York, NY
