+++
title = "Data Engineer"
employer = "University of Wisconsin-Madison"
employerurl = "https://www.wisc.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://jobs.wisc.edu/jobs/data-engineer-madison-wisconsin-united-states"
postdate = "2023-06-07"
archivedate = "2023-06-28"
draft = "false"
+++

**Data Engineer**

**Job Summary:**

The Wisconsin Longitudinal Study is looking to hire a Data Engineer I or II with a strong interest in metadata, preferably knowledgeable about DDI standards and frameworks, with Colectica experience a plus. WLS produces science-ready data for use by researchers world-wide. WLS is transitioning from in-house information systems to using Colectica tools to create and maintain a DDI-compliant data repository, to improve ease of use for researchers and long-term data curation and archiving.

We're looking to hire a team player to help manage a very large dataset (over 27K variables). The desired candidate will have experience with MS_Windows and UNIX; HTML; XML; shell scripts and Python or a similar programming language; data import/export methods. Relational databases and SQL a plus; web applications using PHP a plus. Familiarity or willingness to learn SAS and Stata is also desired.


**Responsibilities:**

Contributes to a research agenda set by a lead researcher by creating automated processes for preparing and analyzing data at scale.

- 30% Prepares data sets for current and future analysis including cleaning/quality assurance, transformations, restructuring, and integration of multiple data sources and may use technologies that support data at scale
- 5% Implements data analysis steps in collaboration with data scientists, statisticians, and/or other researchers and may use technologies that support data at scale
- 25% Organizes both data preparation and analysis steps into reproducible pipelines that can process similar data sets automatically
- 20% Selects appropriate technologies and optimizes pipelines for performance
- 20% Develops, constructs, tests, and maintains architectures for large-scale data management and analysis

**Institutional Statement on Diversity:**

Diversity is a source of strength, creativity, and innovation for UW-Madison. We value the contributions of each person and respect the profound ways their identity, culture, background, experience, status, abilities, and opinion enrich the university community. We commit ourselves to the pursuit of excellence in teaching, research, outreach, and diversity as inextricably linked goals.

The University of Wisconsin-Madison fulfills its public mission by creating a welcoming and inclusive community for people from every background - people who as students, faculty, and staff serve Wisconsin and the world.

For more information on diversity and inclusion on campus, please visit: [Diversity and Inclusion](http://diversity.wisc.edu/)

**Education:**

Required
Bachelor's Degree

**Qualifications:**

Experience working with large data sets and an interest in developing and maintaining metadata using cutting edge tools and techniques.

**Work Type:**

Full Time: 100%

This position may require some work to be performed in-person, onsite, at a designated campus work location. Some work may be performed remotely, at an offsite, non-campus work location.

**Appointment Type, Duration:**

Ongoing/Renewable

**Salary:**

Minimum $46,016 ANNUAL (12 months)
Depending on Qualifications

**Job Location**

Madison, Wisconsin
