+++
title = "Information Research Specialist (2 positions)"
employer = "Baker Library, Harvard Business School"
employerurl = "https://www.library.hbs.edu/baker-research-data-services"
moreinfourl = "https://bit.ly/washu_gisdata_analyst_apply"
postdate = "2023-07-24"
archivedate = "2023-08-22"
draft = "false"
+++

**Information Research Specialist** (2 positions)

**Job Summary**

Are you excited by the idea of joining an organization supporting cutting edge business research in an academic setting? Do you share our passion for applying new research and data skills and enjoy helping others succeed in their research endeavors? Are you drawn to the community and energy of a world-class university? If so, consider joining the Baker Research & Data Services team at Harvard Business School. You’ll work closely with our amazing faculty, students, and staff and make valued contributions in support of Harvard Business School’s mission to educate leaders who make a difference in the world.

Baker Research & Data Services (BRDS), a department of Baker Library at Harvard Business School (HBS), is actively recruiting two new colleagues to join our team. We provide innovative and customized services to our faculty at every stage of their academic research. Our collegial team of experienced business researchers and data specialists are essential partners for HBS faculty, doctoral students, research associates, and other researchers in planning, organizing, and executing their research; cleaning, merging, and preparing data for analysis; gathering information and data from public and proprietary sources; conducting literature searches; mining Baker Library’s and Harvard’s collections and databases; acquiring and licensing content; and much more.

Learn more about our services at [https://www.library.hbs.edu/baker-research-data-services](https://www.library.hbs.edu/baker-research-data-services)

**Position Description**

- Collaborates with colleagues and customers virtually and in-person to determine their research needs and to participate in the design of data and information projects
- Acts with independence and initiative to complete research projects efficiently and on time
- Accesses and extracts information and data from a variety of primary and secondary sources and in a variety of digital and traditional formats
- Explains data and provides expert guidance to untrained users; prepares informative and illustrative exhibits and explanations; plans, conducts, and presents results of analytical processes.
- Explores and innovates new methods and technologies for information & data retrieval, synthesis, and analysis, and contributes to the expansion of our team’s services
- Participates in Baker Library, HBS, and Harvard Library projects, committees and programming.
- Ability to perform the essential duties of the position with or without reasonable accommodation
- This role is responsible for other duties as assigned

**Basic Qualifications**

- Bachelor’s degree required
- 5+ years of experience providing research and/or data support in business, finance, economics, and/or other social science research environments required

**Additional Qualifications and Skills**

**Additional Skills, Experience, and Credentials:**

- Demonstrated experience working both independently and as a team member in a dynamic environment and on a variety of simultaneous projects
- Track record of producing timely, high-quality results under pressure and prioritize work to meet multiple deadlines.

**Preferred Qualifications:**

- Graduate degree in library science, business or related field, or equivalent experience
- Consistent record of managing customer relationships and providing superb customer service
- Expert knowledge of financial data platforms such as Bloomberg, Capital IQ, Refinitiv, WRDS, FactSet, and/or other business information platforms
- Intermediate to advanced knowledge of Microsoft Excel and/or experience using other analytical and data wrangling tools such as SAS, Stata, R, and/or Python
- Experience with building research queries and gathering literature from databases such as Factiva, EBSCO, LexisNexis, Web of Science, etc. and familiarity with tools and strategies for conducting search queries, organizing voluminous search results, and integrating results with data from other sources
- Proficiency with data visualization or mapping using Tableau, ArcGIS, or coding languages

Our expectations are that employees of HBS adhere to and represent our Community Values.
They are:

- Respect for the rights, differences, and dignity of others
- Honesty and integrity in dealing with all members of the community
- Accountability for personal behavior

**Additional Information**

This role is offered as a hybrid (some combination of onsite and remote) where you will be required to be onsite at our Boston, MA based campus 3 days per week. Specific days and schedule will be determined between you and your manager.

Harvard Business School will not offer visa sponsorship for this opportunity. Culture of Inclusion: The work and well-being of HBS is profoundly strengthened by the diversity of our network and our differences in background, culture, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, and life experiences. Explore more about HBS work culture here [https://www.hbs.edu/employment](https://www.hbs.edu/employment).

**Benefits**

The salary range for this role is $85,000 to $90,000, commensurate with relevant experience.

We invite you to visit [Harvard’s Total Rewards website](https://hr.harvard.edu/totalrewards) to learn more about our outstanding benefits package, which may include:

- Paid Time Off: 3-4 weeks of accrued vacation time per year (3 weeks for support staff and 4 weeks for administrative/professional staff), 12 accrued sick days per year, 12.5 holidays plus a Winter Recess in December/January, 3 personal days per year (prorated based on date of hire), and up to 12 weeks of paid leave for new parents who are primary care givers.
- Health and Welfare: Comprehensive medical, dental, and vision benefits, disability and life insurance programs, along with voluntary benefits. Most coverage begins as of your start date.
- Work/Life and Wellness: Child and elder/adult care resources including on campus childcare centers, Employee Assistance Program, and wellness programs related to stress management, nutrition, meditation, and more.
- Retirement: University-funded retirement plan with contributions from 5% to 15% of eligible compensation, based on age and earnings with full vesting after 3 years of service.
- Tuition Assistance Program: Competitive program including $40 per class at the Harvard Extension School and reduced tuition through other participating Harvard graduate schools.
- Tuition Reimbursement: Program that provides 75% to 90% reimbursement up to $5,250 per calendar year for eligible courses taken at other accredited institutions.
- Professional Development: Programs and classes at little or no cost, including through the Harvard Center for Workplace Development and LinkedIn Learning.
- Commuting and Transportation: Various commuter options handled through the Parking Office, including discounted parking, half-priced public transportation passes and pre-tax transit passes, biking benefits, and more.
- Harvard Facilities Access, Discounts and Perks: Access to Harvard athletic and fitness facilities, libraries, campus events, credit union, and more, as well as discounts to various types of services (legal, financial, etc.) and cultural and leisure activities throughout metro-Boston.

Job Function

Library

Department Office Location

USA - MA - Boston

Job Code

386057 Library Professional

Work Format

Hybrid (partially on-site, partially remote)

Department

Baker Library

Sub-Unit

------------

Time Status

Full-time

Salary Grade

057

Union

00 - Non Union, Exempt or Temporary

Pre-Employment Screening

Education, Identity

**Commitment to Equity, Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging**

Harvard University views equity, diversity, inclusion, and belonging as the pathway to achieving inclusive excellence and fostering a campus culture where everyone can thrive. We strive to create a community that draws upon the widest possible pool of talent to unify excellence and diversity while fully embracing individuals from varied backgrounds, cultures, races, identities, life experiences, perspectives, beliefs, and values.

**EEO Statement**

We are an equal opportunity employer and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status, gender identity, sexual orientation, pregnancy and pregnancy-related conditions, or any other characteristic protected by law.

**Job Location**

Boston, MA
