+++
title = "Scholarly Engagement Librarian "
employer = "Tulane University"
employerurl = "https://tulane.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://apply.interfolio.com/107202"
postdate = "2023-03-09"
archivedate = "2023-04-27"
draft = "false"
+++

**Scholarly Engagement Librarian**

Tulane University Libraries (TUL) invites applications for a Scholarly Engagement Librarian position in the new [Scholarly Engagement Department](https://library.tulane.edu/locations/scholarly-engagement) (8 librarians, 3 staff). This position will liaise to physical science departments in the School of Science and Engineering (SSE), including Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering, Chemistry, Computer Science, Earth and Environment Science, Mathematics, Physics & Engineering Physics, and River-Coastal Science & Engineering. The successful applicants will serve as the
Libraries’ primary liaison to faculty, staff, and students within their assigned schools, centers, and institutes. We welcome applicants with a range of experiences, backgrounds, and interests, including recent graduates, early career professionals, and those seeking a new career path.  

Applicants are encouraged to share how their non-library specific skills and experiences speak to the SSE departments listed above and the job qualifications and needs.  

We welcome applicants with a range of experiences, backgrounds, and interests, including recent graduates, early career professionals, and those seeking a new career path. Applicants are encouraged to share how their non-library specific skills and experiences speak to the job qualifications and needs.

Scholarly Engagement Librarians collaboratively plan and deliver innovative library services to faculty, staff and students through instruction, workshops, consultations, guides, tutorials, and other means. They serve on cross-departmental teams to support interdisciplinary teaching and research initiatives that may include information discovery, data literacy, open research, research impact, research data management, data curation, and/or data visualization. They collaborate within the department and across the library on collection development and management for assigned areas. They contribute to departmental projects and serve on library committees, while considering how their daily work supports and advances the Libraries’ core values and creates an environment and community that is welcoming for library users and colleagues.

Scholarly Engagement Librarians are professionally active and contribute to developments in the field. This position reports to the Director of Scholarly Engagement, is based in New Orleans, Louisiana.

**ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:**

- With librarian colleagues, designs, delivers, and assesses instruction in the discovery, use, interpretation, and evaluation of information resources
- Prepares and provides workshops for emerging research technologies
- Conducts individual or small-group consultations with students and faculty
- Serves as the library liaison to various departments, institutes, or centers.  Regularly meets with faculty to discuss needs for research and teaching and shares information with library colleagues
- Identifies and selects for purchase or licensing appropriate scholarly resources for liaison departments in a variety of formats, managing assigned funds, and working collaboratively with fellow Scholarly Engagement librarians as well as Technical Services colleagues
- Works collaboratively with all library units to improve information discovery and delivery
- Actively seeks out and participates in relevant professional organizations and professional development opportunities
- Incorporates inclusive and equitable policies and processes to ensure diversity and accessibility in all outreach and instruction efforts

**Tulane & New Orleans Information**

Tulane University is an AAU/Carnegie I/ARL Research Institution located in beautiful Uptown New Orleans bordering Audubon Park and the St. Charles Avenue streetcar line (listed on the United States National Register of Historic Places). For more information about Tulane, visit [https://library.tulane.edu/about-tulane-university](https://library.tulane.edu/about-tulane-university).

TUL consist of four physical locations across two campuses and employ ca. 110 full-time staff and librarians. The Libraries serve Tulane’s nine schools and one undergraduate college with over 4.6 million books and physical items; 1.2 million eBooks; nearly 200,000 online journals; 900 databases; and distinctive collections that focus on the many facets of New Orleans’s music, history, and culture. The Libraries also hosts Open Access journals, online exhibits, and the Tulane University Digital Library. For more information about the Libraries, visit [https://library.tulane.edu/about/facts-about-libraries](https://library.tulane.edu/about/facts-about-libraries).

**Salary & Benefits**

The anticipated salary range is $55,000 - $67,000. Tulane University offers a competitive benefits package that includes relocation assistance, tuition assistance, support for professional development and travel, health insurance, and retirement contributions.

Flexible work arrangements are also available after six months. For more details, visit [https://hr.tulane.edu/benefits/benefits](https://hr.tulane.edu/benefits/benefits).

**Hiring Statement**

Tulane University Libraries is committed to integrating diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility (DEIA) into all aspects of our work and environment. We acknowledge that reaching these DEIA goals will strengthen our institution and allow for new directions in growth. We also acknowledge that we currently have barriers to embedding DEIA in our organization. Work is being done across TUL to investigate and address these barriers, create actionable objectives, and implement programming and structural change. You can learn more about some of those efforts on the [TUL Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee](https://library.tulane.edu/about/html/diversity-equity-inclusion-committee) page and the [Tulane Strategy for Tomorrow](https://tulane.edu/racial-equity/strategy-for-tomorrow) website. Tulane University Libraries is committed to building a diverse workplace that welcomes and values all people, and we encourage you to apply if you have transferable skills and experience

**Qualifications**

**REQUIRED EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE:**

- A graduate degree in the humanities, social sciences, sciences, or engineering OR an ALA-accredited MLIS or equivalent
- 1 or more years of experience in research, research support, or instruction

**PREFERRED EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE:**

- 2 or more years of relevant academic library experience

**REQUIRED KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, ABILITIES/COMPETENCIES TYPICALLY NEEDED TO PERFORM THIS JOB SUCCESSFULLY:**

- Strong interest in and/or experience with creative and engaging outreach to the entire academic community
- Interest in learning new tools and skills to support evolving research methods
- Understanding of the academic research process and the ways that new technologies are affecting the production of scholarship
- Experience or demonstrated interest in developing and assessing collections
- Ability to communicate clearly and knowledgeably
- Ability to work creatively and collaboratively in a team environment
- Commitment to fostering an environment of equity, diversity, and inclusion
- Evidence of ability for ongoing professional development and contribution
- Ability to function fully and competently at technology competency Levels I and II outlined in the HTML Core Technology Competencies for Employees (See [https://library.tulane.edu/sites/default/files/core_technology_competencies.pdf ](https://library.tulane.edu/sites/default/files/core_technology_competencies.pdf)).

**PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS:**   

- Experience providing research and instruction support
- Experience with collection development
- Knowledge of or experience with Springshare products
- Knowledge of or experience with data analysis and visualization tools such as Python, R, SPSS, Power Bi, or Voyant
- Knowledge of or experience with tools for collaborative research such as GitHub, electronic lab notebooks, data repositories, and data sharing tools

**Job Location**

New Orleans, LA
