+++
title = "Data Visualization Analyst"
employer = "Duke University"
employerurl = "https://www.duke.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://library.duke.edu/about/jobs/datavisualization"
postdate = "2023-01-25"
archivedate = "2023-03-02"
draft = "false"
+++

**Data Visualization Analyst**

The Data Visualization Analyst is responsible for providing consultation, instruction and project support to faculty, students, and campus groups across Duke University supporting individual, class, and team visualization projects. The Data Visualization Analyst participates in the data science community at Duke and assists in developing and evolving visualization services in concert with researcher needs.  This is a 3-year appointment with the possibility of extension.

- Teaches an introductory course on data visualization and storytelling in the Masters in Interdisciplinary Data Science program
- Consults and provides training to students and faculty from  all academic disciplines in the visualization of data and the effective presentation of research results
- Mentors students working on capstone projects in the Masters in Interdisciplinary Data Science program
- Leads classes, workshops and training sessions on data visualization tools and strategies that meet the needs of the Duke community
- Collaborates with Duke's Center for Computational Thinking in planning and developing campus events and resources for expanding access to computational thinking
- Engages in ongoing outreach activities to inform and cultivate a visualization community
- Creates guides, software, and tutorials to enhance data visualization at Duke University
- Participates in relevant conferences and meetings on data visualization and related areas with the goal of developing visualization services and the analyst’s role in furthering these services
- Seeks opportunities to maintain and develop new expertise in relevant tools and techniques, including attending training sessions and engaging in project work
- Other duties as assigned

**Supervisory Responsibilities**

- May supervise student assistants

**Qualifications**

It is the expectation that all Duke University Libraries staff members will demonstrate exceptional workplace behaviors in the execution of their specific position responsibilities. These behaviors are customer focus, collaboration, creative problem solving, continuous learning, and a commitment to creating a culture of inclusion that values and respects diversity of perspective, background, and experience.

**Education:**

Required: Master’s degree or equivalent educational/professional experience

Preferred: Higher education degree that demonstrates facility with data visualization concepts

**Experience:**

Required:  

- Demonstrated ability to generate narratives from data and communicate them to a diverse set of stakeholders
- Demonstrated teaching experience either as an instructor, graduate student, or faculty member
- A portfolio of previous data visualization work
- Demonstrated experience using data visualization tools, specifically Tableau and / or Microsoft Power BI, and other similar tools such as, Altair, ggplot, matplotlib, d3.js, etc.
- Experience with one or more programming/scripting languages (e.g., Python, R, Javascript)
- Able to work independently and as a member of a team

Preferred:  

- One to three years’ experience working in information visualization or comparable education and experience
- Demonstrated ability to provide consultations and instruction to researchers on information visualization
- Demonstrated experience with workflows for managing, cleaning, and analyzing large collections of data
- An understanding of current best practices in designing visualizations based on research in the field, as demonstrated through sample visualization projects, publications, or training
- Excellent interpersonal, oral and written communication skills
- Able to construct and automatically extract information from databases
- Extensive experience in one or more of the following subfields of data visualization: information visualization, scientific visualization, geospatial visualization, visualization for humanities projects
- Experience working with web data visualization tools such as Shiny and/or Streamlit
- Experience with tools that allow web based visualizations of machine learning models (Gradio)

**Working Conditions**

- Normal office environment
- Occasional weekend/evening shifts required
- Occasional travel required

These statements are intended to describe the general nature and level of work being performed by the employee in this position. They are not intended to be construed as an exhaustive list of all responsibilities, duties, and skills required of a person in this position. This description is subject to change at any time.

**Salary and Benefits**

Salary and rank dependent on qualifications and experience; anticipated salary range is $80,000-$90,000. Comprehensive benefits package includes 20 days vacation, 14 holidays, 12 days sick leave; health, dental, disability and life insurance and support for professional development and training.
 

**Environment**

Since its founding in 1924, Duke University has grown into one of the most prestigious private universities in the world and its medical center ranks annually among the top in the nation. The Duke University Libraries are the shared center of the university's intellectual life, connecting people and ideas. The Libraries consist of the Perkins Library, Bostock Library, Rubenstein Rare Book and Manuscript Library, Lilly Library, and Music Library, and the library at the Duke Marine Laboratory in Beaufort. Duke's library holdings of 6.2 million volumes are among the largest of private universities in the United States.  

Duke is a diverse community committed to the principles of excellence, fairness, and respect for all people. We recognize that the workplace only truly flourishes with an active presence of different backgrounds and unique abilities. We value the unseen perspective, the unheard voice, and the unnoticed ideas. We hope to give a platform of growth and connection, where employees can be free to produce new ways of thinking to promote inclusion and respect for all. Duke University Libraries encourages an environment where shared goals are reached by exceptional individuals.
    
Duke's hometown is Durham, North Carolina, a city with vibrant research, medical and arts communities, and numerous shops, restaurants and theaters. Durham is located in the Research Triangle, a growing metropolitan area of more than one million people that provides a wide range of cultural, recreational and educational opportunities. The Triangle is conveniently located just a few hours from the mountains and the coast, offers a moderate climate, and has been ranked among the best places to live and to do business.

Duke offers a comprehensive benefit package which includes both traditional benefits such as health insurance, leave time and retirement, as well as wide ranging work/life and cultural benefits. Details can be found at:  [http://www.hr.duke.edu/benefits/index.php](http://www.hr.duke.edu/benefits/index.php).

**Application**
Cover letter, detailed resume and the names, addresses (mailing and e-mail), and telephone numbers of three references should be submitted to  [https://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/23960](https://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/23960). Review of applications will begin immediately and will continue until the position is filled.
 
Applications which are missing any of the components listed above will not be reviewed.

Duke aspires to create a community built on collaboration, innovation, creativity, and belonging. Our collective success depends on the robust exchange of ideas-an exchange that is best when the rich diversity of our perspectives, backgrounds, and experiences flourishes. To achieve this exchange, it is essential that all members of the community feel secure and welcome, that the contributions of all individuals are respected, and that all voices are heard. All members of our community have a responsibility to uphold these values.

Duke University is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer committed to providing employment opportunity without regard to an individual’s age, color, disability, genetic information, gender, gender identity, national origin, race, religion, sexual orientation, or veteran status. The Duke University Libraries have a strong commitment to Affirmative Action and is actively seeking to increase the racial and ethnic diversity of our staff.

**Job Location**

Durham, NC
