+++
title = "Summer 2024 Graduate Intern "
employer = "Federal Reserve Board Research Library"
employerurl = "https://www.federalreserve.gov/"
moreinfourl = "https://www.federalreserve.gov"
postdate = "2023-10-30"
archivedate = "2023-12-19"
draft = "false"
+++

**Summer 2024 Graduate Intern (Paid Internship)**

**Summary**

The Federal Reserve Board (Board) provides students opportunities for career success. The Board’s Internship program is designed to provide valuable work experience for graduate students considering careers including, but not limited to, economics, finance and accounting, information systems, and data analysis. The Board believes that by combining academic endeavors with project-related work experience, qualified and capable college students can gain the practical knowledge need in a competitive global job market. Internships are paid positions with salaries commensurate with credit hours; internships may be in-person, remote or hybrid, depending on the needs of the team. Employment in the Board’s internship program is granted to U.S. citizens. Applicants must be currently enrolled in a graduate degree program at an accredited university and returning to continue studies after the internship. Interns receive a syllabus or research project plan outlining their projects and goals for the internship. Interns are assigned a supervisor or mentor to guide them through their internship, and regular check-in meetings with their manager to manage performance expectations and assist with learning goals. Interns have access to a wide range of training programs and events for professional development purposes.

**Position Requirements**

The Research Library at the Federal Reserve Board of Governors is offering a paid summer internship for graduate-level library or information science students to advance several projects that will improve library services to the Board research and professional community. We offer a full array of desktop and customized library services to staff members at the Board and assist in data intensive and web-dependent Board Research.

To enhance discovery and use of the Board’s valuable resources and research, projects will have a particular focus on data- and metadata-related efforts. Depending on the intern’s skills and interests, s/he will work on several of the following projects that represent a variety of the library’s responsibilities supporting the Board.  

§  Data Catalog Migration, Maintenance, Expansion Support

Projects may include: Cataloging assistance for data assets in line with national, international, and Board standards and practices; aid in metadata maintenance and clean up; assist with data migration and quality checks among systems.

§  Scholarly Research and Communications
Projects may include: Enhance and maintain [metadata for DOIs through Crossref](https://www.crossref.org/education/metadata-stewardship/maintaining-your-metadata/); support efforts to improve our citation reports, including possible revision of current indices and deployment of altmetrics; further streamline the use of researcher IDs, including possible automated integration with ORCID.

§  Metadata and Taxonomy Standardization and Enhancement

Interns may assist with taxonomy and authority control development to support interoperability (including scope note review, search log analysis, and update of names).

§  Research

Research and prepare a report on findings of library and information systems best practices in support of the Research Library's strategic plan.

§  Outreach and Marketing

Assist Outreach/Marketing Team with implementing library marketing plan, awareness campaigns, and develop and update training materials.

§  Improvements to Technologies and Processes

Projects may include: assist with subscription management software; support SharePoint Online migration.

 Qualifications/Skills Needed:

- Enrolled in a Master’s degree program in library or information science at an ALA-accredited institution (MLS), graduating fall 2022 or later.
- Knowledge and interest in library technology
- A minimum of 15-20 credits in foundational library science coursework completed by the start of the internship.
- Must have attention to detail, initiative, and good communication skills.
- Should have a basic understanding of metadata
- Python and coding skills are a plus, but not required
- Students with prior course work in original and copy cataloging is preferred, but not required

Note:

    Open to students interested working hybrid or 100% virtual. 
    Must be a US Citizen

We are an Equal Opportunity Employer and do not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, genetic information, or application, membership, or service in the uniformed services.

**Job Location**

Washington, DC
