+++
title = "Conservation & Preservation Manager"
employer = "Boston College Libraries"
employerurl = "https://www.library.bc.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://bc.csod.com/ux/ats/careersite/2/home/requisition/8191?c=bc"
postdate = "2023-09-26"
archivedate = "2023-10-06"
draft = "false"
+++

**Conservation & Preservation Manager**

**Job Description:**

The Boston College Libraries seeks an experienced, collaborative Conservation & Preservation Manager to manage and oversee conservation and preservation activities for the Libraries’ distinctive and unique collections. This position represents an exciting opportunity to grow a newly developing program, as the inaugural incumbent in a newly re-envisioned role directing preservation and conservation across the BC Libraries. The incumbent will perform complex conservation treatments on a variety of primarily paper-based special collection materials, including bound materials, archival items, and photographs, but may also encounter artifacts, textiles and other formats. The successful candidate will also oversee preservation activities for the BC Libraries, including training and supervising staff performing less complex treatments/repairs and/or preservation housings, liaising documenting treatments, developing and overseeing disaster and emergency preparedness and response, with facilities on environmental control. The position also supports the Libraries’ exhibits programs by creating custom exhibit mounts and advising on best practices for display of special collections materials. Ideal candidates will be able to demonstrate their ability to perform conservation treatments on a variety of materials, and should have a dedicated commitment to working within special collections. They should also be able to prioritize tasks effectively, and respond fluidly to newly emerging priorities. They will also be able to influence across all levels of the organization, plan and delegate tasks within a team-based environment, and have a commitment to continual learning.

Reporting to the Head Librarian, Metadata & Special Collections Technical Services, the Conservation & Preservation Manager will manage a Preservation/Conservation specialist, students assistants, and interns. The ideal candidate brings a mix of technical expertise and program management, and will be excited about a unique opportunity to engage in traditional conservation work, while building a newly developing preservation and conservation program.

Boston College Libraries operate in accordance with our Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion values statement ([library.bc.edu/edi](http://library.bc.edu/edi)), which is central to our mission. We acknowledge historical, structural, and systemic injustices and are actively working to build a culture that recognizes, values, and empowers all people and provides space for discourse and growth. We expect applicants for this position to demonstrate a commitment to sustaining a respectful, accountable, and intentionally inclusive culture.

Full-Time Equivalent Hiring Range: $75,150 to $93,950; salary commensurate with relevant experience.

**Qualifications:**

- Master’s degree in library science or certification from an institution specializing in conservation of special collections materials.
- Minimum of 3 years of experience in conservation assessment and treatment of paper-based materials.
- Strong communication and problem-solving skills.
- Ability to work within a diverse, learning environment and articulate technical concepts to a general audience.
- Adept at time management and task prioritization.
- Commitment to continual learning through work-related experiences, training, and professional development.
- In-depth knowledge of current and emerging trends in the conservation and preservation field

**Preferred:**

- Supervisory experience.
- Experience working with special collections materials in an institutional setting.
- Experience installing or preparing exhibits.

**Job Location**

Chestnut Hill, MA
