+++
title = "Deputy Director of the UK Data Service"
employer = "UK Data Archive (at University of Essex)"
employerurl = "https://www.data-archive.ac.uk/"
moreinfourl = "https://hrorganiser.essex.ac.uk/tlive_webrecruitment/wrd/run/ETREC107GF.open?VACANCY_ID=068570U4tg&WVID=9918109NEm&LANG=USA"
postdate = "2023-10-17"
archivedate = "2023-12-18"
draft = "false"
+++

**Deputy Director of the UK Data Service**

We are seeking to appoint a new Deputy Director of the UK Data Service. The successful candidate will provide operational leadership across the institutions that contribute to the service and will play an important role in shaping the future complexion of state-of-the-art data services.

Applicants should have an excellent track record in organisational and transformational operation management. You will have the skills and ability to lead digital transformation and develop sustainable approaches that will help future-proof our data services.

Further details and job pack:

UK Data Service (UKDS) is funded by the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) to meet the data needs of researchers, students and teachers from all sectors in the UK and beyond, including academia, central and local government, charities and foundations, independent research centres, think tanks, business consultants and the commercial sector.

UK Data Archive (UKDA) is home to the UK’s largest digital collection of social sciences and population research data. UKDA is the lead partner in the UK Data Service.

This is an appointment as Deputy Director of the UKDS and a member of the UKDA, based in the world leading Faculty of Social Sciences at the University of Essex.

**The Role**

You will provide operational leadership across the institutions that contribute to the UK Data Service, namely UKDA (at Essex), Jisc, Edina (Edinburgh), CMI (Manchester) and UCL. The role holder will have significant responsibility for ensuring the smooth functional operation of the Service and effective implementation of the UKDS Delivery Plan. The Deputy Director will, together with the Director, play an important role in shaping the future complexion of state-of-the-art data services.

Key responsibilities of the Deputy Director will include initiating and fostering links with relevant organisations in the field of research data services and to ensure first-class service and performance of UKDS. Working with the Director, you will contribute to the development of, and help lead, the implementation of the UKDS Strategy and associated Delivery Plan.

**About You**

With an excellent track record in organisational and transformational operation management, the Deputy Director will provide excellent leadership for UKDS, promoting closer integration between the data services currently delivered across the UKDS partnership. You will have the skills and ability to lead digital transformation in data services and develop sustainable approaches that will help future-proof our data services.

A full list of duties and responsibilities and applicant requirements can be found within the job pack.

At the University of Essex, internationalism and diversity is central to who we are and what we do. We are committed to being a cosmopolitan, internationally oriented university that is welcoming to staff and students from all countries, faiths and backgrounds, where you can find the world in one place.

To support this commitment we have our [Global Forum](https://www.essex.ac.uk/staff/diversity-and-inclusion/global-forum), a staff-led network that promotes and celebrates the rich cultural diversity among Essex staff, and our Colchester campus based Faith Centre, which hosts regular services, meetings and events organised by our chaplains and faith representatives. For more information see: [https://www.essex.ac.uk/life/student-facilities/religion-and-faith](https://www.essex.ac.uk/life/student-facilities/religion-and-faith)

Please see the attached job pack, which contains a full job description and person specification, which outlines the full duties, skills, qualifications and experience needed for this role plus more information relating to the post. We recommend you read this information carefully before making an application.  Applications should be made on-line, but if you would like advice or help in making an application, or need information in a different format, please email the Resourcing Team (resourcing@essex.ac.uk).

More information: [Working at the University](https://www.essex.ac.uk/about)

Salary:  £57,696 - £64,914 per annum

**Job Location**

Colchester, England
