+++
title = "Business and Data Librarian"
employer = "Seton Hall University"
employerurl = "https://shu.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://jobs.shu.edu/cw/en-us/job/495711/business-and-data-librarian"
postdate = "2023-04-20"
archivedate = "2023-05-26"
draft = "false"
+++

**Business and Data Librarian**

Full time/Part time: Full-time

Location: South Orange

Categories: Faculty

The successful candidate will serve as primary liaison to the Stillman College of Business with a focus on course-integrated instruction and outreach, and serve as a member of the Research Data Services team. We are looking for a forward-thinking individual with analytical and problem-solving skills who can work collaboratively with the Assistant Dean of Public Services and our librarian team. This is a tenure track position; an additional graduate degree, scholarship and services are required for tenure.

**Duties and Responsibilities:**

- Build and cultivate relationships at Stillman, the Buccino Leadership Institute, and related Institutes such as the Academy of Applied Analytics and Technology (A3T).
- Build robust services and collections supporting business research and education in traditional and emerging areas of business.
- Incorporate best practices for information and data literacy for the Business School and the Seton Hall Community based on collaboration with liaison librarian team. This may include such as finding data sets, assisting with quantitative and qualitative data analysis software, and data management planning with the Data Services Team.
- Participate in library and other committees that would grow outreach for data collection, data literacy training, data analysis, and visualization for undergraduate and graduate students.
- Engage with professional organizations, research, or publishing that will have a significant, positive impact on University Libraries and the Seton Hall Research community.
- Commitment to supporting the Mission of the University and Servant Leadership

**Required Qualifications:**

- MLS or MI from an ALA-accredited graduate program.
- A degree (undergraduate or graduate) in business, economics, marketing, management or related field or three or
more years of successful academic library experience at a university with a Business School.
- Experience providing business and data information, reference and research consultations in an academic library
setting.
- Evidence of a strong commitment to student-centered services.
- Extensive knowledge of academic electronic information resources, data services and technologies, and an awareness
of current issues in academic libraries.
- Evidence of excellent oral and written communication, teaching, analytical skills, and project management.
- Established willingness to respond to new opportunities with initiative, creative energy, and leadership.
- Commitment to advancing diversity and inclusion in our workplace, as well as in the systems, services, and collections
we build.

**Desired Qualifications:**

- Experience working in a business field such as accounting, finance, management or marketing.
- Proficiency with MS Excel advanced functions (Pivot Tables, data analysis) and statistical packages such as Stata.
- Knowledge or willingness to learn one programming language such as R or Python.
- Proficiency in common tools used by researchers who work with business, financial and economic data, e.g.,
Bloomberg, Refinitiv Workspace, Capital IQ, FactSet, etc.
- Experience with using a data analysis, visualization, and mapping tools such as ArcGIS
- Knowledge of scholarly research trends and research methods in business, leadership and emerging areas
- Knowledge of business research methodologies, data applications and repositories, and legal and government
information sources.
- Ability to plan, coordinate, and implement effective programs and complex projects
- Evidence of critical thinking skills and project management experience.
- Familiarity building and maintaining print and digital collections.
-  Additional graduate degree in relevant field
-  Seton Hall University Libraries is an equal opportunity employer and recognizes and values the benefits of a diverse
workplace.

**Salary Grade:**

FA01 - Faculty

**Exempt/Nonexempt:**

Exempt

**Physical Demands:**

General Office Environment

**Job Location**

South Orange, NJ
