+++
title = "Finance and Operations Research Librarian"
employer = "Princeton University"
employerurl = "https://www.princeton.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://dof.princeton.edu/apply"
postdate = "2023-12-06"
archivedate = "2023-12-22"
draft = "false"
+++

**Finance and Operations Research Librarian**

Department:    Library-Data, Research, and Teaching Services (DaRTS)

Princeton University Library

**Position Summary** 

Princeton University Library (PUL) seeks a creative and dedicated librarian to provide research and instruction services focused on finance and operations research.  Reporting to the Assistant University Librarian for Research, Teaching, and Social Sciences, the Finance and Operations Research Librarian is part of the Firestone Social Sciences team in the Data, Research, and Teaching Services (DaRTS) division. This position supports students, faculty, and staff in finance, operations research, economics, and related social science fields. 

This position works closely with the Economics Librarian as well as other social science librarians and specialists, including those at the Stokes Library who support the School of Public and International Affairs (SPIA) and at the Data and Statistical Services (DSS) unit in Firestone. Liaison responsibilities include the Bendheim Center for Finance, the Initiative for Data Driven Social Science (DDSS) and shared responsibility for the Operations Research and Financial Engineering (ORFE) department, and may include backup responsibility for the Economics department and its affiliated centers.

Core responsibilities include conducting research consultations, teaching data and finance workshops, and supporting popular licensed services such as the Bloomberg Professional Service and the Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS). The ability to understand and leverage data analysis tools, work with restricted and open data sets, and understand current research methodologies in economics, econometrics, and finance is critical, as is the ability to collaborate creatively with other librarians and specialists. This position will assist with research questions at all levels from first-year undergraduates through faculty members. Additional responsibilities include course-based instruction, outreach, developing research guides, and conducting workshops. This position collaborates with units across the library and represents PUL in professional meetings and partnerships.

PUL is one of the world’s leading research libraries. It employs a dedicated and knowledgeable staff of more than 300 professional and support staff working in a large central library, 9 specialized branches, and 3 storage facilities. The Library supports a diverse community of 5,500 undergraduates, 3,100 graduate students, 1,200 faculty members, and many visiting scholars. Its holdings include more than 7 million printed volumes, 5 million manuscripts, 2 million non-print items, and extensive collections of digital text, data, and images. Further information: https://library.princeton.edu 

**Required Qualifications:**

- ALA-accredited MLS degree and work experience related to economics, operations research, finance or business OR an advanced degree in any of these fields
- Formal coursework in finance or economics
- Expertise with finance instruments, large scale economics, operations research and/or finance data
- Work experience in a research library or comparable academic setting including conducting instruction, research consultations, and outreach
- Broad knowledge of the field of finance including scholarly resources and bibliographic tools, trends in digital scholarship, licensing and legal ramifications, data analysis, and relevant qualitative or quantitative methods
- Broad knowledge of econometrics and data science methodologies and emerging trends
- Excellent interpersonal skills, project and time management skills, and the ability to work collaboratively and collegially with a diverse group of scholars and colleagues
- Proficiency with relevant data tools such as R, Python, SAS, and/or Stata, and commitment to continue to learn about emerging technologies and methods

The successful candidate will be appointed to an appropriate Librarian rank depending upon qualifications and experience. 

PUL is committed to recruiting a diverse workforce and advancing the University's commitment to racial equity within our community and in the world. We encourage candidates from all diverse backgrounds and life experiences to apply for our positions. To find out more about PUL’s work towards greater inclusivity, equity, and diversity, please see PUL’s “About” page.

**Job Location**

Princeton, NJ
