+++
title = "Science Liaison Librarian (3)"
employer = "University of Minnesota"
employerurl = "https://umn.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://hr.myu.umn.edu/jobs/ext/354445"
postdate = "2023-03-22"
archivedate = "2023-04-27"
draft = "false"
+++

**Science Liaison Librarian - 3 positions**
 
**About the Job** 

The University of Minnesota Libraries invites applications for three collaborative and service-oriented Science Liaison Librarians to join a team of librarians who work to advance the teaching, learning, and research initiatives of the College of Food, Agriculture, and Natural Sciences, the College of Biological Sciences, and the College of Science and Engineering. We are welcoming both experienced librarians and those who are new to the field with an opportunity for on-the-job training and mentorship in science librarianship. The successful candidates will bring a strong interest in growing as a science librarian and a willingness to engage in ongoing professional development in this dynamic specialization. They will serve as a key member of the Sciences, Agriculture, and Engineering (SAgE) department,  reporting to the SAgE Director, and will work closely with colleagues in the Research Services Area and across the University Libraries system.   

**Overview**

Liaison librarians apply their knowledge of academic disciplines, their experience with effective pedagogy, their understanding of research methodologies, and their expertise in library information science to facilitate teaching, learning, and research. They actively engage and collaborate with faculty, students, and staff throughout the knowledge lifecycle, from the discovery of information to its use and sharing to the development of new knowledge and finally to the dissemination of new modes of scholarship. The University Libraries prioritize inclusion, diversity, equity, and accessibility as our guiding principles. These [guiding principles](https://www.lib.umn.edu/about/inclusion) should inform all parts of the Science Liaison Librarian role. The individual will also contribute to the profession through research, publication, and professional engagement, while working toward the continuous appointment.   The successful candidate will:

- Actively engage with a diverse community of faculty, staff, and students in assigned departments to understand their teaching, learning, and research needs, and identify ways in which the libraries can meet those needs.
- Develop and teach course-integrated instruction sessions and stand-alone workshops, integrating information literacies and other research skills.
- Provide consultation services for affiliated faculty, staff, and students that support their teaching, learning, and research needs.
- Provide training and support for the research lifecycle.
- Collaborate with researchers to develop effective strategies that support open science and research reproducibility, including data management and open access publishing.
- Collaborate with library colleagues to develop and offer research services, including systematic reviews and research impact reports.
- Provide leadership for and contribute to Libraries-wide projects and initiatives.
- Contribute to the knowledge base of the profession through research, publication, and professional engagement.

We particularly welcome candidates with skills for supporting interdisciplinary and collaborative research, forging new relationships with faculty and students, and creating new services that respond to trends in scientific research in those disciplines. 

**Salary & Benefits:**

This is a full-time, 12-month, continuous appointment track academic, professional position with a probationary appointment at the Assistant Librarian rank with the potential for an appointment at the Associate Librarian rank. The minimum salary for this position is $58,500 plus depending on qualifications.  The Libraries offer a competitive salary commensurate with experience. Excellent benefits and substantial moving allowance.   Qualifications Required:

- Master’s degree in library and information science from an ALA-accredited institution (or international equivalent) or advanced science degree in a related discipline by the time of appointment/position start.
- Understanding of teaching, learning, and research trends in the sciences.
- Demonstrated understanding of scientific research methods and data collection processes.
- Ability to take the initiative, develop and carry out projects, and manage multiple priorities and deadlines.
- Demonstrated commitment to and support for a culture of diversity, and equity, inclusion, and access.

Preferred:

- Understanding trends in academic research support and expertise in providing research lifecycle support.
- Experience in an academic or research library. This may include supporting researchers in exploring models of scholarly communications.
- Experience in research data management best practices and techniques.
- Familiarity with metadata standards, creation, schemas, or data management.
- Knowledge of software packages and file formats for collecting and analyzing scientific data, such as R, SQL, MATLAB, and Python, as well as tools and workflows for supporting reproducible research

**Job Location**

Minneapolis, MN
