+++
title = "Research Associate III (STEEP: Data Management and Analysis Core)"
employer = "University of Rhode Island"
employerurl = "https://www.uri.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://jobs.uri.edu/postings/12380"
postdate = "2023-10-18"
archivedate = "2023-12-19"
draft = "false"
+++

**Research Associate III (STEEP: Data Management and Analysis Core)** 

STEEP (Sources, Transport, Exposure & Effects of PFAS), established in 2017, a Multiproject Center Grant awarded by the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences Superfund Research Program (NIEHS SRP), is a partnership of the University of Rhode Island, Harvard University, and Silent Spring Institute.

STEEP addresses the threat of poly- and perfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) through rigorous interdisciplinary science exploring:

- transport and exposure pathways
- impacts on human health
- mechanisms for uptake, elimination, and screening
- novel environmental detection techniques
- engagement with communities at contaminated sites

STEEP seeks a highly motivated Research Associate to join our interdisciplinary team. The primary responsibility of this position will be to develop and implement data management practices based on the FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Reusable) principles for data collected from experiments, simulations, field research, and clinical studies. The successful candidate will work closely with project teams to ensure that data generated by the project are managed in a manner that promotes transparency, collaboration, and scientific rigor.

The position is based in Kingston, Rhode Island USA, but a hybrid remote work arrangement is negotiable.

Job profile below:

Position Type 	Professional Staff
Union 	PSA/NEA - Professional Staff Assoc
Pay Grade Level 	Grade Level: 11
Pay Grade Range 	Expected Salary Range: $60,000 - $75,000

**BASIC FUNCTION:**

Support STEEP (Sources, Transport, Exposure & Effects of PFAS) by developing and implementing data management practices based on the FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Reusable) principles for data collected from experiments, simulations, field research, and clinical studies. Work closely with project teams to ensure that data generated by the project are managed in a manner that promotes transparency, collaboration, and scientific rigor.

**Duties and Responsibilities**

**ESSENTIAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:**

- Implement data management plans and practices for the project in accordance with the FAIR principles.
- Work with the research team to ensure that data are properly documented, formatted, and curated to promote reusability and interoperability.
- Develop and maintain data sharing agreements and policies for the project.
- Ensure compliance with ethical and legal requirements related to data management and sharing.
- Participate in project meetings and collaborate with team members to advance the scientific goals of the project.
- Contribute to the preparation of scientific publications, reports, and presentations.

**OTHER DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:**

- Perform other duties as assigned.

**LICENSES, TOOLS, AND EQUIPMENT:**

- Personal computers and printers; word processing, data analysis, database management, and project management software. Python or R.

**Required Qualifications**	

- Master’s degree in environmental science, data science, public health, or related field.
- Minimum three years’ experience in data management and analysis.
- Demonstrated ability to effectively communicate technical information to a wide variety of audiences.
- Demonstrated experience with best practices for data collection, documentation and sharing.
- Demonstrated experience with Python or R for data management and analysis.
- Demonstrated organizational skills.
- Demonstrated strong interpersonal and verbal communication skills.
- Demonstrated proficiency with written communication skills.
- Demonstrated ability to work independently and as part of a team.
- Demonstrated ability to work with diverse groups/populations.

**Preferred Qualifications**	

- Doctoral degree.
- Demonstrated familiarity with the FAIR principles.
- Demonstrated experience with the use of taxonomies, thesauri, and/or ontologies.
- Demonstrated familiarity with LC-MS analysis.
- Demonstrated experience with XML or JSON data.
- Demonstrated familiarity with proteomics and RNA sequencing data.
- Demonstrated experience working on interdisciplinary research projects.

_______________________________________________________________________________________________

**ALL REQUIREMENTS ARE SUBJECT TO POSSIBLE MODIFICATION TO REASONABLY ACCOMMODATE INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES.**

**Environmental Conditions**
	
This position is not substantially exposed to adverse environmental conditions. The physical environment is a climate-controlled office with occasional in-state and out-of-state travel. Significant desk-time and computer use.


**Job Location**

Kingston, Rhode Island
