+++
title = "3D Data Visualization Specialist"
employer = "Washington University St. Louis - University Libraries"
employerurl = "https://www.wustl.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://bit.ly/washu_gisdata_analyst_apply"
postdate = "2023-10-13"
archivedate = "2023-12-18"
draft = "false"
+++

Join the Data Services team at Washington University in St. Louis in the role of 3D Visualization Specialist. Duties include research consultation, development and management of workshops and training programs, direct outreach to faculty and students to assess and support 3D data collection, management, and visualization. Development of research tools, consultation services, and programming that support the use of data visualization methods and approaches, use of visualization tools scripting, and other applications that support 3D data research, teaching and learning.

Washington University in St. Louis is a leading research institution situated at the epicenter of geospatial work. Data Services is a part of the University Libraries and the team is currently made up of five professionals who work collaboratively to deliver [our core services](https://library.wustl.edu/research-support/data-services/). Staff throughout the Libraries are committed and competent. We are dedicated to diversity, equity, and inclusion, and we encourage all qualified applicants to apply.

The grade range for this position is $57,300.00 - $97,700.00 / Annually, however the hiring range is $57,300.00 - $70,000.00 / Annually.

Full job description below:

**Position Summary**

Reporting to the Head of Data Services, the 3D Data Visualization Specialist develops research services and consults with WU campus users related to 3D data visualization. The position will focus on the development of services, tools, and programs to support faculty, staff, and students’ efforts to model data and produce 3D data visualizations. The incumbent also will collaborate with units across the Libraries in applying data analytics and data visualization tools for Libraries projects, services, and resources.

The incumbent will work collaboratively with campus stakeholders throughout the WU community, and external partners to facilitate the use of data visualization tools and resources for research and learning.
Job Description

**Primary Duties & Responsibilities**

- Works closely with colleagues in Data Services and across the Libraries to develop tools and services that support WU campus faculty, students, and staff work related to 3D data collection, management, and visualization.
- Develops research tools, consultation services, and programming that support the use of data visualization methods and approaches, use of visualization tools (e.g., Tableau), scripting, and other applications that support analytics and web delivery of research data.
- Engages with partners within the Libraries, campus stakeholders, and with external partners to advance education outreach and engagement for data services.
- Develops content and provides instruction (teaches workshops) on 3D data collection, analysis, and visualization to faculty, students, and staff.
- In collaboration with Library Technology Services, Digital Library Services, and other relevant Libraries staff as well as campus stakeholders, collaboratively support selected computational tools and platforms that can be used for data analytics and data visualization approaches.
- Represents the Libraries on campus, nationally, and internationally, and engage in professional activities outside of the University to stay up to date on developments in 3D data visualization research and related services.
- Performs other duties as assigned and as needed.

**Preferred Qualifications**

- Advanced degree or coursework in information sciences, engineering, data science, math, information systems, or a related field.
- Experience working in an academic or cultural heritage institution.
- At least 2 years of professional experience.
- Ability to work with students and researchers in developing project work plans and obtaining resources for digital projects.
- Experience in developing user-centered services.
- Familiarity with web design and web development;
- Familiarity with database design and management.
- Understanding of technology application in scholarly research and teaching;
- Demonstrated familiarity and experience with computational tools, methods, and approaches utilized in 3D data visualization and data analytics (e.g. Unity, Metashape, Meshlab, Blender, Maya, etc.).
- Ability to learn new technologies and instruct others in their uses.
- Familiarity with programming languages such as Python or R.
- Strong organizational skills and demonstrated ability to manage projects.
- Strong interpersonal skills, demonstrated ability to work in a collaborative team-based environment, and to communicate well with IT and non-IT staff.
- Strong analytical and problem-solving skills.
- Excellent oral and writing communication skills.

**Required Qualifications**

- Master’s degree or advanced certificate in relevant field (science, math, engineering) or closely related field.
- Two years related work experience.
- Or equivalent combination of education and relevant work experience.                   

Grade: G12

Salary Range: $57,300.00 - $97,700.00 / Annually

The salary range reflects base salaries paid for positions in a given job grade across the University. Individual rates within the range will be determined by factors including one's qualifications and performance, equity with others in the department, market rates for positions within the same grade and department budget.

**Job Location**

St. Louis, MO
