+++
title = "Head of Health Research Services"
employer = "University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill"
employerurl = "https://library.unc.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://library.unc.edu/hr/employment/head-of-health-research-services/"
postdate = "2023-05-02"
archivedate = "2023-05-26"
draft = "false"
+++

**Head of Health Research Services**

The University Libraries at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill seeks a team-oriented and engaged Head of Health Research Services to join the Health Sciences Library.

Reporting to the Health Sciences Library (HSL) Director, the Head of Health Research Services, will oversee a new unit that brings together existing services to support health affairs researchers and clinicians. This unit will include a team of three talented employees and part-time graduate assistants. The Head of Health Research Services will provide vision, direction, and coordination for existing and future services designed to advance the mission of our research partners at UNC. Existing services include support for assessing and visualizing research impact and research scope through analysis of citation, grant, and other data (e.g., patent data); research data management and sharing; and application of automation tools, including machine learning, designed to increase efficiency of evidence synthesis projects. Future and expanded services may be related to text analytics, machine learning, natural language processing, research data management, data ethics, responsible metrics, alt-metrics, and/or support of UNC’s School of Data Science and Society (SDSS).

The Head of Health Research Services will oversee day-to-day operations, mentor, and lead the team, and ensure that growth of the Health Research Services department is strategically aligned with the priorities of other HSL departments, related units across University Libraries, and those of UNC campus. The Head of Health Research Services will work closely with allied departments at HSL and across University Libraries including with Clinical and Research Engagement (CARE), Clinical and Statewide Engagement (CaSE), Digital Research Services, and Library IT departments. The position will connect regularly through dotted line relationships with these and other department heads across University Libraries to develop and plan innovative, technology-driven services for campus researchers, to coordinate event programming and outreach, and to ensure consistency of data services.

Campus partners include administrators, faculty, clinicians, postdocs, fellows, and students in clinical departments at the medical center and at the five health affairs schools served by HSL including, Adams School of Dentistry, Eshelman School of Pharmacy, Gillings School of Global Public Health, and UNC Schools of Medicine and Nursing. Other campus partners that we engage with regularly include the Office of Research, North Carolina Translational and Clinical Science (NC TraCS), UNC Center for Health Equity Research, Lineberger Cancer Center, UNC School of Social Work, UNC School of Library and information Science, and the Carolina Health Informatics Program (CHIP).

**Qualifications**

**Required**

- ALA-accredited master’s degree in library or information science or a relevant advanced degree.
- A minimum of 3 years relevant experience in library, health-related, or research settings.
- Experience supervising and mentoring staff, including a strong commitment to service and teamwork.
- Experience creating welcoming and inclusive learning and research environments.
- Ability to work effectively and collaboratively with diverse user communities, including students, faculty, researchers, colleagues, and community members.
- Experience managing projects in a library, academic, or research environment including excellent interpersonal and oral and written communication skills.
- Excellent judgment, organizational and analytical skills.
- Demonstrated ability to establish effective and sustainable partnerships that support strategic goals.
- Experience with metric data sources, such as Dimensions, Web of Science, Scopus, Google Scholar, and/or Journal Citation Reports.
- Experience providing data-related services in a library or research setting.

**Preferred**

- Experience developing and assessing library services and programs.
- Experience partnering on research efforts in academic settings.
- Experience supporting data analysis and visualization in a research setting.
- Experience with text analytics and/or machine learning tools and methodology.
- Demonstrated aptitude for quickly learning new tools and technologies.
- Experience using advanced skills related to data cleaning/wrangling/normalization, regular expressions, web scraping, and APIs to support and collaborate with researchers on data-related research.
- Knowledge and understanding of bibliometric indicators such as citation counts, publication counts, journal metrics, and altmetrics.
- Knowledge of emerging trends in research impact and assessment.
- Knowledge of systematic reviews including standards for conducting searches, reviewing literature, developing documentation, and tools to support the research team (e.g., Covidence, reference managers).
- Proficiency with at least one programming language (such as Python, Java, or R).
- Experience working with bibliographic metadata.

**The University and The Libraries**

The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill is the country’s oldest state university. UNC Chapel Hill has an enrollment of approximately 29,000 students, employs more than 3,500 members of the faculty, and offers 69 doctoral degrees as well as professional degrees in medicine, social work, information science, and law.

The University Libraries aspires to set the standard for public university research libraries in the digital age. One of the largest research libraries in the U.S. South, The University Libraries is an essential part of the University’s educational and research efforts. It includes 9 libraries on campus, including the Health Sciences Library, Walter Royal Davis Library, Louis Round Wilson Special Collections Library, and the R.B. House Undergraduate Library. The University Libraries hold approximately 9.2 million volumes and extensive collections of manuscripts, audiovisual, microforms, graphics, government documents and rare books. The Libraries is a member of the Association of Research Libraries, the Council on Library and Information Resources, and the Center for Research Libraries. Together with the libraries at Duke University, North Carolina Central University, and North Carolina State University, the members of the Triangle Research Libraries Network (TRLN) provide services and collections to their students, faculty, and staff in support of the education, research, healing, and service missions of the universities.

The University Libraries serves campus and broader communities that reflect the socioeconomic, ethnic, and religious diversity of the state of North Carolina, and we maintain a welcoming, inclusive, and open educational and workplace climate for all. We strive to create an environment of respect and collaboration where vision and innovation can flourish. Learn more about our Strategic Framework — including our pillars, values, and priorities — by visiting [https://library.unc.edu/about/strategic-framework/](https://library.unc.edu/about/strategic-framework/).

**The Region**

The Triangle region is one of the most desirable places to live and work in North America and offers its residents a wide array of recreational, cultural, and intellectual activities. The mountains or the seashore are less than a half day’s drive from Chapel Hill.

**Salary and Benefits**

This is a twelve-month, non-faculty academic librarian appointment. Standard state benefits include annual leave, sick leave, and State or optional retirement. The salary range for the Head of Health Research Services position begins at $69,900. The University Libraries intend to hire at a minimum of $95,000, with a salary commensurate with experience and qualifications.

**Job Location**

Chapel Hill, NC
