+++
title = "Research Data Services Librarian"
employer = "Carnegie Mellon University: Libraries"
employerurl = "https://www.library.cmu.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://apply.interfolio.com/131324"
postdate = "2023-09-07"
archivedate = "2023-10-03"
draft = "false"
+++

**Research Data Services Librarian**

**Description**

**Who We Are Looking For**

Carnegie Mellon University Libraries seeks a collaborative, people-centered, technically-skilled faculty colleague with experience working with data across the research lifecycle to join us as our research data services librarian. 

In this role, you will be a lead research data resource for the CMU community and a key partner in crafting and delivering library services in response to demand and interest from the research community and data access expectations from research funders. You will be expected to provide best-in-class research data management and open data services to researchers, research teams, and major research initiatives. Both technically and socially savvy, you will be able to provide assistance and guidance with data collection; data preparation for analysis; developing schema and standards; meeting institutional, funder, and federal requirements; creating data management and sharing plans; selecting data repositories; and data curation. You will be highly motivated to develop close collaborative research relationships with faculty and staff across disciplines. 

You will be joining an agile, enthusiastic, and interdisciplinary academic engagement team with a strong focus on open science and a commitment to providing outstanding research and learning support to the CMU campus community. As a member of that team, and under the leadership of the associate dean for academic engagement, you will also work with other library faculty to support university priorities (from core competencies to sustainability to fostering a culture of diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging); help meet the wide range of information, data, and computational literacy needs on campus; and keep abreast of evolving computational research and education trends across the disciplines. 

We are especially interested in candidates who can contribute to the diversity and excellence of the academic community through their research, teaching and/or service.

**What You Will Do**

- Proactively cultivate relationships with other university research support units in order to provide visible, timely, coherent, and consistent research data support services to the campus research community. 
- Work with other members of the academic engagement team to develop and maintain discipline-specific research data services, learning modules, and training opportunities. 
- Design and implement training opportunities and materials for research teams and research support staff
- In collaboration with library faculty colleagues on the open science and data teams, promote and advise on open, reproducible, responsible, and ethical data practice as an integral part of open science 
- Identify opportunities to connect with research teams, research coordinators, graduate students, and postdoctoral fellows to build sustainable and scalable data workflows across the university
- Remain current on evolutions in the research data and scholarly communication landscape and lead library efforts to meet emerging data needs
- Serve as an internal resource for colleagues on data literacy and data management 

**Your Faculty Status** 

You will be a member of the library faculty, with your initial appointment rank and salary dependent on your experience. In addition to providing responsive library services to faculty, students and staff, you will be encouraged and supported in developing or continuing your own program of research and scholarship related to data librarianship and/or to aspects of your disciplinary expertise. You will also participate in governance and projects through various committees and working groups as assigned or elected.

To be considered for reappointment or promotion, you will be expected to demonstrate excellence in librarianship and in research or scholarship as defined by the [university policy on librarian and archivist appointments](https://www.cmu.edu/policies/faculty/appointments-librarian-and-archivist.html). 

 
**Qualifications**

**What We Require**

The ideal candidate will have a graduate degree in a STEM discipline and/or library/information science,  enthusiasm for developing as a professional and continuing to learn in order to meet emerging research and learning needs, and be able to demonstrate training and/or direct experience with the following:

- Many of the ontologies, standards, and schema commonly used for research data across the disciplines
- Working with and responsibly managing scientific research data
- One or more statistical methods and scripting languages used for the cleaning and wrangling of research data
- Data description, curation, transformation, preparation for reuse and reproducibility, and preservation
- Changes in the scholarly communication and funding landscapes as they pertain to data
- FAIR and CARE principles
- Writing or helping develop data management plans

**What We Would Like You To Have**

- Graduate degree in a STEM-related field
- Familiarity with preparing data sets for computational reproducibility, sharing, and archiving
- Knowledge of qualitative research design, including survey design, and qualitative research tools and methods 

**Application Instructions**

**What We Can offer**

- A competitive annual salary commensurate with experience
- Professional development and travel funds
- Generous [health, tuition, and retirement benefits](https://www.cmu.edu/jobs/benefits-at-a-glance/)
- A commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging

**About CMU**

Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) is a world-leading and global research-intensive institution known for its distinctive interdisciplinary culture, which champions creative and technological inquiry and collaborative efforts, and its faculty who inspire students to think creatively, interpret with insight, and solve major societal, scientific, and technological challenges. Please visit [“Why Carnegie Mellon”](http://www.cmu.edu/jobs/why-cmu/index.html) to learn more about becoming part of an institution inspiring innovations that change the world. 

**About CMU Libraries**

The CMU Libraries is the destination for scholarly information, creative inquiry and intellectual collaboration across disciplines, propelling the significance, reach and impact of the university. Investment in the library is part of the University’s Strategic Plan 2025, which calls for the creation of “a 21st century library that serves as a cornerstone of world-class research and scholarship.” In alignment with that plan,  the Libraries proudly accelerates research and discovery and leads the way in open access to information and data, amplifying the work happening at CMU.

CMU Libraries offers generous health, tuition, and retirement benefits; flexible work opportunities and robust professional development support. 

**About Pittsburgh**

A thriving city known for its great restaurants, outdoor adventure, culture, and reasonable cost of living, Pittsburgh has been repeatedly recognized as one of the most liveable cities in the United States. The university’s main campus is located adjacent to Schenley Park, with its more than 4,450 acres of trails and access to outdoor activities, ten minutes from the city’s vibrant downtown. 

**To Apply**       

We hope you are interested in joining us. To be considered, please upload your CV, a cover letter, and contact information for three references to Interfolio.  This position requires a background check. 

Flexibility, excellence, and passion are vital qualities within the CMU Libraries.  Inclusion, collaboration, and cultural sensitivity are valued competencies at CMU. Therefore, we are searching for a team member who can effectively interact with a diverse population of internal and external partners at a high level of integrity. We are looking for someone who shares our values and who will support the mission of the university through their work.

We strongly encourage applications from members of groups that have been marginalized and/or underrepresented in academic librarianship and who will contribute to the breadth of our organization.

**Job Location**

Pittsburgh, PA
