+++
title = "Associate Head, Data & Visualization Services"
employer = "North Carolina State University"
employerurl = "https://www.ncsu.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://jobs.ncsu.edu/postings/183973"
postdate = "2023-06-19"
archivedate = "2023-06-28"
draft = "false"
+++

**Associate Head, Data & Visualization Services**

Join the NC State University Libraries and help us create adventurous, innovative services and library spaces that delight students, faculty, and researchers. The award-winning James B. Hunt Jr. Library on NC State’s Centennial Campus, offers access to advanced technologies that are enabling revolutionary ways to see and use information. Capturing NC State’s spirit of innovation in education and research, the Hunt Library is recognized as one of the world’s most creative and inspirational learning and collaborative spaces and a model for “the library of the future.” The D. H. Hill Jr. Library, serving the main campus, combines the best of tradition and innovation, housing special collections and a beautiful gallery alongside vibrant, experiential spaces for making, digital media creation, data analysis and visualization, and collaboration. Three branch libraries focus on design, natural resources, and veterinary medicine. 

The NC State University Libraries invites applications and nominations for the position of **Associate Head, Data & Visualization Services**. The Data & Visualization Services (DVS) department (7 librarians, 1 support staff, plus graduate student assistants) helps students and other researchers develop critical data science and visualization skills through expert consultation, workshops, and classroom instruction. The department provides support for a wide range of data lifecycle activities including data collection, discovery, access, evaluation, cleaning, management, modeling, analysis, geospatial techniques, and visualization. The department is the service owner for the Dataspace in the Hunt Library and the Data Experience Lab in the Hill Library, community-oriented spaces offering specialized computing, expert assistance, and programs and services supporting data science and visualization. DVS collaborates with others in the Libraries and with NC State’s Data Science Academy (DSA), a university-wide effort to meet the university’s growing needs for data science research, education, and expertise. The DSA is located in the Hill Library and works with library staff in the areas of data consultation, instruction, and programs to ensure that at NC State, “data science is for everyone.”   

**Responsibilities**

The Associate Head, Data & Visualization Services shares management responsibility for the department, helping to set departmental goals and objectives and to foster a collaborative, motivating, and creative work environment. They oversee, promote, and directly participate in the department’s instruction program and workshop series , including teaching sessions in collaboration with course faculty and Libraries colleagues. In addition, the Associate Head supervises at least one staff member, while also offering training and guidance to all members of the DVS team on relevant areas of expertise. This position establishes and maintains partnerships with other university units and partners. The position deeply considers how their approach to their daily work reflects and advances the [Libraries’ Strategic Plan](https://www.lib.ncsu.edu/strategic-priorities), aligning their management and daily work in support of these core values and creating an environment and community that is welcoming for both patrons and colleagues alike. They integrate issues related to data ethics into the provision of data services. The position represents the department in the absence of the head in both internal and external venues. They participate in library planning and participate in divisional management meetings as well as other library-wide committees, task forces, and teams. Librarians are expected to be active professionally and to contribute to developments in the field. The position reports to the Department Head, Data & Visualization Services.

This position is based in North Carolina. This position is eligible for flexible hours with a hybrid work environment. This position will require frequent onsite work.

NC State promotes an integrated approach to problem solving that transforms lives and provides leadership for social, economic, and technological development across North Carolina and around the world. NC State’s land grant mission of teaching, research and service is dedicated to the service of North Carolina and its people.  Applicants are encouraged to review the institution’s mission, vision and strategic plan, and consider how their background, interest and experience would enable them to support the university.

**Required Qualifications**

Applicants are encouraged to think broadly about and communicate how their skills and experiences transfer to the qualifications below in ways that may not be obvious, including how non-library-specific skills and experiences speak to the position qualifications and needs. We welcome applicants with a range of experiences, backgrounds, and interests to apply for this position.

- ALA-accredited MLS, MIS, or other relevant, advanced degree 
- Expertise in the provision of data services in academic environments 
- Experience developing and leading workshops, training, or instruction sessions
- Ability to serve and collaborate with a large user community reflecting a variety of backgrounds and disciplines
- Ability to foster an environment of belonging and well-being
- Ability to communicate clearly and knowledgeably through a variety of media; ability to represent the Libraries to university and external audiences
- Evidence of ability for ongoing professional development and contribution to the library profession
- Demonstrated ability to collaborate effectively and work in a team environment 

**Preferred Qualifications**

It is not required that candidates meet any of the preferred qualifications to be considered for this position. The following skills represent some of the areas in which this position could potentially grow and focus, based on the incumbent's background and interests.

    Experience supervising staff and/or student employees
    Experience providing consultation or reference services for data in an academic setting

    The Libraries, the University, and the Area

**Salary and Benefits**

The Libraries offers a highly competitive final salary in recognition of the incumbent's applicable education and experience, with a minimum salary of $85,000 annually. Librarians have non-tenure track faculty status (without levels of rank). Benefits include: 24 days vacation, 12 days sick leave; State of NC preferred provider medical insurance, and state, TIAA/CREF, or other retirement options. Additional and optional dental, life, disability, deferred compensation, and legal plans are offered. Tuition waiver program for all campuses of The University of North Carolina is available. More benefits information is available at https://benefits.hr.ncsu.edu. In addition, the Libraries offers generous support for ongoing professional development and training.

**Job Location**

Raleigh, NC
