+++
title = "Research Information Management Librarian"
employer = "University of Minnesota"
employerurl = "https://www.umn.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://hr.myu.umn.edu/psc/hrprd/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/c/HRS_HRAM_FL.HRS_CG_SEARCH_FL.GBL?Page=HRS_APP_JBPST_FL&Action=U&SiteId=1&FOCUS=Applicant&JobOpeningId=353747&PostingSeq=1"
postdate = "2023-03-07"
archivedate = "2023-04-27"
draft = "false"
+++

**Research Information Management Librarian**

Join the University of Minnesota Libraries as the Research Information Management Librarian as you collaborate to showcase the University’s research and scholarship. Libraries’ Open Research & Publishing Department (ORP) is one of the newest departments within the Libraries. ORP brings together services and expertise that span across subject disciplines for a holistic approach to research services, including Publishing Services, Research Information Management, and Data Management and Curation. As an employee in this new department, the successful candidate will join with other new and established colleagues to shape both Research and Information Management as well as the ORP department.

The Research Information Management Librarian will contribute to the knowledge base of the profession through research, publication, and professional engagement, and they work towards continuous appointment status.

**Job Requirements:**

- Develops and maintains an awareness of the trends and issues in university-level rankings and research impact; applies findings to research impact services.
- Prioritizes, evaluates, negotiates, and manages requests for research information and bibliometric data and support.
- Works with directors to scope and scale research impact services through liaison librarian contributions;
- Serves as the Libraries’ liaison to the local and national Research Information Management (RIM) community.
- Develops programs and manages projects, usually involving multiple contributors, in consultation with sponsors, supervisors, and other stakeholders.
- Contributes to the onboarding and training of librarians on core research impact service responsibilities.
- Prepares analytics and customized reports, visualizations, and presentations for Libraries leadership and occasionally requests from Dean’s.
- Through individual and coordinated team-based contributions, provide consultation services to researchers on research metrics, use of various bibliometric and altmetric resources, and the use of researcher identification and profiling tools.
- Designs and maintains effective content and  training related to research information management and research impact.
- Partners with other campus units to share service goals, expertise, and knowledge relative to research information management.
- Partners with Libraries IT to manage RIM software on behalf of the campus (Experts@Minnesota).

This is a full-time, 12-month, continuous appointment track academic professional position with  probationary appointment at the Assistant Librarian rank with the potential for appointment at the Associate Librarian rank.  The salary minimum for this position is $58,500 depending on qualifications.  The Libraries offer a competitive salary commensurate with experience. Excellent benefits, substantial moving allowance, and possibility for flexible work location arrangements. Enjoy our [flexible work culture](https://hr.umn.edu/Employees/Current-Employees/Work-Flexibility/Overview-Work-Flexibility), and the Twin Cities rich cultural and outdoor community. Learn more and [apply today](https://hr.myu.umn.edu/psc/hrprd/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/c/HRS_HRAM_FL.HRS_CG_SEARCH_FL.GBL?Page=HRS_APP_JBPST_FL&Action=U&SiteId=1&FOCUS=Applicant&JobOpeningId=353747&PostingSeq=1).

**Job Location**

Minneapolis, MN
