+++
title = "GIS and Data Analyst"
employer = "Washington University in St. Louis"
employerurl = "https://www.wustl.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://bit.ly/washu_gisdata_analyst_apply"
postdate = "2023-07-24"
archivedate = "2023-08-22"
draft = "false"
+++

**GIS and Data Analyst**

**Position Summary**

The GIS and Data Analyst is a key member of the libraries Data Services team who, in coordination with colleagues, provides research support, educational outreach, and project management related to data with a focus on GIS. Duties include research consultation, development and management of workshops and training programs, direct outreach to faculty and students to assess and support data service and GIS needs, coordination with the university’s larger GIS program, and the development of other workflows that support the use of GIS technologies on campus, and selected project work.

**Primary Duties & Responsibilities**

- Works closely with Data Services team and Libraries staff to provide research support to University users engaged in data collection, data management and sharing, GIS analysis, modeling, coding, machine learning, and data mining. Advises campus users in collaboration with Data Services team to translate research. Recommends and communicates new solutions in professional manner to faculty and staff.
- Develops content and provides instruction on GIS, geospatial data, geospatial data mining, coding, geospatial data management, and sharing. Creates research resources (e.g., research guides, and online tutorials) to aid learning and research.
- Assists on administrative tasks related to GIS applications running in an enterprise network environment. Assist the GIS developer with administrative tasks in collaboration with Library Technology Services and campus-wide technology services on installation, and administration of service level GIS applications deployed on university owned and cloud-based systems.
- Maintains awareness on new and emerging technologies, methodologies and implementation strategies relating to GIS, geospatial and research data, and by engaging in relevant professional communities.
- Performs other duties as assigned.

**Preferred Qualifications**

- Advanced degree in GIS, Information Sciences, Data Science, or closely related field. 
- Experience working in an academic, cultural heritage, or research institution.
- Three to five years' experience with GIS concepts and technical aspects. 
- Ability to present complex data and spatial concepts to users. 
- Spatial database design and modeling experience. 
- Experience with mobile/field GIS technology, data collection, and processing.
- Experience in working in professional service-oriented role interacting with faculty and students on research projects.
- Excellent communication skills (oral and written).
- Excellent organizational skills and ability to balance multiple assignments.
- Demonstrated ability to meet project deadlines.
- Strong interpersonal skills with demonstrated ability to work in a collaborative team-based environment.
- Ability to communicate well with IT and non-IT staff.
- Aptitude for assessing and incorporating new technologies.
- Demonstrated self-starter.
- Ability to work as part of a team and alone equally well.
- Desire to work in a service-oriented environment.

**Required Qualifications**

- Bachelor’s degree in Geographic Information Systems, Information Sciences, or closely related field.
- Two years of related experience to include demonstrated experience in database management with Microsoft SQL or other enterprise- level database management system and demonstrated knowledge of GIS software, GIS analysis, and map production, including familiarity with ArcGIS.
- OR equivalent combination of relevant education and work experiences.                  

Grade: G12

Salary Range: $57,300.00 - $97,700.00 / Annually

The salary range reflects base salaries paid for positions in a given job grade across the University. Individual rates within the range will be determined by factors including one's qualifications and performance, equity with others in the department, market rates for positions within the same grade and department budget.

**Benefits Statement**

Personal

    Up to 22 days of vacation, 10 recognized holidays, and sick time.

    Competitive health insurance packages with priority appointments and lower copays/coinsurance.

    Want to Live Near Your Work and/or improve your commute? Take advantage of our free Metro transit U-Pass for eligible employees. We also offer a forgivable home loan of up to $12,500 for closing costs and a down payment for homes in eligible neighborhoods.

    WashU provides eligible employees with a defined contribution (403(b)) Retirement Savings Plan, which combines employee contributions and university contributions starting at 7%.

Wellness

    Wellness challenges, annual health screenings, mental health resources, mindfulness programs and courses, employee assistance program (EAP), financial resources, access to dietitians, and more!

Family

    We offer 4 weeks of caregiver leave to bond with your new child. Family care resources are also available for your continued childcare needs. Need adult care? We’ve got you covered.

    WashU covers the cost of tuition for you and your family, including dependent undergraduate-level college tuition up to 100% at WashU and 40% elsewhere after seven years with us.

For policies, detailed benefits, and eligibility, please visit: [https://hr.wustl.edu/benefits/](https://hr.wustl.edu/benefits/)

**Job Location**

St. Louis, MO
