+++
title = "Data Services Librarian"
employer = "Indiana University Indianapolis"
employerurl = "https://www.indiana.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://indiana.peopleadmin.com/postings/25873"
postdate = "2024-09-20"
archivedate = "2024-10-11"
draft = "false"
+++

**Data Services Librarian**

This position is tenure-track and is geared towards early career folks. We are a very collegial and collaborative unit. We (the library + my team) are committed to supporting the professional development and growth of the person hired. There is a startup package available for relocation expenses and professional development. The deadline for submitting materials is October 11, 2024. The anticipated start date is January 1, 2025. 

**Position Summary**

Indiana University Indianapolis University Library is seeking a Data Services Librarian to join the Center for Digital Scholarship in supporting researchers across the research lifecycle. The successful candidate will collaborate to extend current support to include data information literacy instruction and the use of computational tools and methods for research. The successful candidate will also collaborate to support researchers with research data management and sharing strategies that will foster success as funder policies and research practices evolve. This is a tenure-track position starting no earlier than January 1, 2025.
 
Ranked among the top 100 most innovative schools by U.S. News and World Report, IU Indianapolis is an urban research and health sciences campus with 15 degree-granting schools and more than 375 academic programs. Located in downtown Indianapolis, a multicultural and affordable mid-sized city, the campus serves more than 25,000 students. 
 
As the state’s premier urban research institution, IU Indianapolis is committed to being a welcoming campus community that reflects and enacts the values of diversity, equity and inclusion that inform academic excellence.

**About the Center for Digital Scholarship**
 
The University Library Center for Digital Scholarship is a unit in the library with five librarians, three staff members, and student workers. The Center is a highly collaborative and motivated group of individuals who are focused on changing IU Indianapolis culture to adopt more open access knowledge practices through a variety of initiatives, services, and advocacy work. The Data Services Librarian reports to the Director of the Center and works closely with colleagues within the Center and across the campus to support research. 
 
**The Successful Candidate**
 
The successful candidate will be someone willing to collaborate with others, flexible in their approach to solving problems, and with a desire to learn. There are multiple paths toward success in this position and each may look slightly different depending on the successful candidate’s interests and experience. We encourage you to communicate how your skills and experiences transfer to the qualifications in ways that may not be obvious. University Library is especially interested in promoting an environment of diversity and excellence throughout the institution and encourages candidates who are committed to fostering diverse and inclusive environments.

**Basic Qualifications**	

**Responsibilities**
 
 - Collaborate to provide data management and sharing consultations to researchers to facilitate open research practices and compliance with funder, publisher, and institutional requirements
 - Develop support for student access and use of data for research
 - Collaborate with liaison librarians to embed data information literacy into appropriate courses and campus student research programs
 - Serve as the campus Official Representative (OR) to Interuniversity Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR)
 - Collaborate with Center librarians and staff on the design, delivery, and evaluation of digital scholarship services
 - Collaborate with librarians and staff on projects and initiatives that advance open access to knowledge
 
**Required Qualifications**

 - Master’s degree from an ALA-accredited Library/Information Science program or an equivalent degree
 - Aptitude to acquire the skills (e.g. R or Python) for data processing, analysis, and visualization
 - Interest in providing instruction using best practices of pedagogy for teaching data information literacy skills (Calzada Prado & Marzal, 2013) to support student success
 - Familiarity with best practices for supporting research data management, sharing, and reuse 
 - Demonstrated interest in supporting qualitative and/or quantitative data collection, analysis, and visualization across academic disciplines
 - Commitment to open knowledge, open access, or open research practices
 - Excellent oral and written communication skills
 - Demonstrated ability to work collaboratively in a small team to solve emerging and sometimes ambiguous problems
 
**Preferred Qualifications**

 - Demonstrated experience with data processing, analysis, and visualization using R or Python
 - Demonstrated experience using API to retrieve and push data
 - Interest in developing reproducible and open workflows for data processing and analysis
 - Knowledge of common statistical methods or qualitative research design and methods
 - Broad knowledge of scholarly communication issues within higher education
 - Experience collaborating with faculty and other research stakeholders 

**Salary and Rank**

The minimum salary is $58,000, with additional funding for professional development and travel. Benefits include 22 vacation days, 10 paid holidays, health/dental insurance options, and retirement contributions of 10% to a Fidelity Investments retirement

**Job Location**

Indianapolis, IN
