+++
title = "Research Data Management Consultant"
employer = "Duke University"
employerurl = "https://www.duke.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://library.duke.edu/about/jobs/researchdatamanagementconsultant"
postdate = "2024-03-07"
archivedate = "2024-03-29"
draft = "false"
+++

**Research Data Management Consultant**

As part of Duke University’s commitment to building a robust campus wide infrastructure for research data management, the Research Data Management Consultant (RDMC) provides consulting and instruction in the policies, resources, and methods of data management.  The RDMC will partner with researchers, students, and other data management groups at Duke to develop a program that is responsive to local needs while informed by current developments in data management policy and technology. This position will also engage with national and international data management and curation groups in sharing best practices, coordinating efforts, and conducting research to improve academic data management and curation.

**Responsibilities**

**Consulting and Instruction (60%)**

- Offers consulting and training on policies, practices, and infrastructure for data and code management, citation, licensing, sharing, and preservation. 
- Conducts research and develops guidance on requirements for data management, openness, and retention from government, funding agencies, and publishers.
- Provides regular consultation for researchers and research teams on data organization and management strategies with the goal of improving data management skills, awareness of data policies, and data sharing/compliance at Duke.  These consultations will include a focus on ethical and/or privacy concerns for sensitive and restricted data.
- Coordinates with external data archives, granting agencies, repositories, and publishers to ensure that Duke researchers are aware of the processes, policies, and requirements for depositing data outside of Duke.

**Community and Infrastructure (35%)**

- Plans, develops, and implements goals, policies and associated workflows that govern data curation, ingest, and preservation in Duke’s Research Data Repository.
- Contribute to the curation of datasets in the Data Curation Network (DCN) as part of Duke's DCN membership.
- As part of the larger data management community at Duke, participates in research data services planning and policy both at Duke especially with groups such as the Office of Research and Innovation, Office of Scientific Integrity, and the Office of Information Technology.
- Coordinates with other data management groups at peer institutions.

**Other (5%)**

- Actively participates in relevant conferences and meetings. Shares research, networks, and actively engages in national data management conversations. Takes responsibility for developing a personal development plan in alignment with the DST strategic plan.
- Performs other duties as assigned.

**Qualifications**

It is the expectation that all Duke University Libraries staff members will demonstrate exceptional workplace behaviors in the execution of their specific position responsibilities. These behaviors are customer focus, collaboration, creative problem solving, continuous learning, and a commitment to creating a culture of inclusion that values and respects diversity of perspective, background, and experience.

**Education**

**Required:** Bachelor’s degree or equivalent educational/professional experience

**Preferred:**  MIS or advanced degree in a field requiring data management expertise

**Experience**

**Required:**

- Demonstrated experience with data management (data transformation, data verification, and coding skills) and use in a variety of contexts
- 3 - 6 years of experience

**Preferred:** 

- Research or research support experience in the basic sciences, life sciences or other STEM fields, especially with reproducible research practices
- Demonstrated ability to provide consultations and instruction to researchers on best practices in data management, grant compliance, and the effective use of technology in managing data collections
- Experience with one or more programming/statistical languages (such as R, Python, or Matlab)
- Experience managing quantitative and qualitative datasets
- Experience working with specialized data cleaning software, such as Open Refine
- Excellent interpersonal, oral and written communication skills
- Able to work independently and as a member of a team

**Working Conditions**

- Normal office environment
- Occasional weekend/evening shifts required
- Occasional travel required

These statements are intended to describe the general nature and level of work being performed by the employee in this position. They are not intended to be construed as an exhaustive list of all responsibilities, duties, and skills required of a person in this position. This description is subject to change at any time.

**Salary and Benefits**

Salary dependent on qualifications and experience; anticipated salary range $85,000-$100,000. Comprehensive benefits package includes 15 days vacation, 14 holidays, 12 days sick leave;   health, dental, disability and life insurance and support for professional development and training.

**Environment**

Since its founding in 1924, Duke University has grown into one of the most prestigious private universities in the world and its medical center ranks annually among the top in the nation. The Duke University Libraries are the shared center of the university's intellectual life, connecting people and ideas. The Libraries consist of the Perkins Library, Bostock Library, Rubenstein Rare Book and Manuscript Library, Lilly Library, and Music Library, and the library at the Duke Marine Laboratory in Beaufort. Duke's library holdings of 6.2 million volumes are among the largest of private universities in the United States. 

Duke is a diverse community committed to the principles of excellence, fairness, and respect for all people. We recognize that the workplace only truly flourishes with an active presence of different backgrounds and unique abilities. We value the unseen perspective, the unheard voice, and the unnoticed ideas. We hope to give a platform of growth and connection, where employees can be free to produce new ways of thinking to promote inclusion and respect for all. Duke University Libraries encourages an environment where shared goals are reached by exceptional individuals.             

Duke's hometown is Durham, North Carolina, a city with vibrant research, medical and arts communities, and numerous shops, restaurants and theaters. Durham is located in the Research Triangle, a growing metropolitan area of more than one million people that provides a wide range of cultural, recreational and educational opportunities. The Triangle is conveniently located just a few hours from the mountains and the coast, offers a moderate climate, and has been ranked among the best places to live and to do business.

Duke offers a comprehensive benefit package which includes both traditional benefits such as health insurance, leave time and retirement, as well as wide ranging work/life and cultural benefits. Details can be found at:  [http://www.hr.duke.edu/benefits/index.php](http://www.hr.duke.edu/benefits/index.php).

Duke aspires to create a community built on collaboration, innovation, creativity, and belonging. Our collective success depends on the robust exchange of ideas-an exchange that is best when the rich diversity of our perspectives, backgrounds, and experiences flourishes. To achieve this exchange, it is essential that all members of the community feel secure and welcome, that the contributions of all individuals are respected, and that all voices are heard. All members of our community have a responsibility to uphold these values.

Duke University is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer committed to providing employment opportunity without regard to an individual’s age, color, disability, genetic information, gender, gender identity, national origin, race, religion, sexual orientation, or veteran status. The Duke University Libraries have a strong commitment to Affirmative Action and is actively seeking to increase the racial and ethnic diversity of our staff.

**Job Location**

Durham, NC
