+++
title = "Head, Map & Data Library"
employer = "University of Toronto"
employerurl = "https://utoronto.ca/"
moreinfourl = "https://jobs.utoronto.ca/job/Toronto-Head%2C-Map-&-Data-Library-%28Librarian-III-Permanent-Status-Stream%29-ON/586856817/"
postdate = "2024-11-19"
archivedate = "2024-12-11"
draft = "false"
+++

**Head, Map & Data Library**

Are you looking for challenging, meaningful work in a supportive and diverse environment? Are you looking for a career at one of Canada’s top employers? Work where the world comes to think, discover and learn. Consider a career at the University of Toronto.

**About the University of Toronto Libraries**

The University of Toronto Libraries system is the largest academic library in Canada and is consistently ranked in the top ten among academic research libraries in North America. The system consists of 40 libraries located on three university campuses: St. George, Mississauga, and Scarborough. This array of college libraries, special collections, and specialized libraries and information centres supports the teaching and research requirements of over 300 graduate programs, more than 70 professional programs, and about 700 undergraduate degree programs. In addition to more than 12 million volumes in 341 languages, the library system currently provides access to millions of electronic resources in various forms and over 31,000 linear metres of archival material. More than 150,000 new print volumes are acquired each year. The Libraries' data centre houses more than 600 servers with a storage capacity of 1.5 petabytes.

**The Opportunity**

The Map & Data Library, located in the Robarts Library on St. George Campus of the University of Toronto, is a small, specialty library. Eleven librarians and support staff, along with student assistants, provide map and data support through collections, consultations, and instruction. Services include data discovery, analysis, visualization, Geographic Information Systems (GIS), statistics, text and data mining, and research data management. The library also maintains a large collection of print maps and manages an extensive collection of datasets and databases. 

The successful candidate will be a progressive, collaborative leader who will: 

- Manage, budget, and provide leadership, vision, and strategic direction to the Map and Data Library (MDL) services and collections. 
- Review and assess user-focused public services, establish priorities, and develop service plans that enhance and support the academic mission of the University. 
- Foster an environment of collaboration, creative thinking, and continuous improvement. 
- Build strong links between and across disciplines and departments in a multi-disciplinary library environment. 
- Oversee map and data collection development and licensing and collaborate with UTL colleagues involved in collection development and licensing. 
- Directly supervise the work of librarians and CUPE1230 full-time staff, and indirectly supervise student casual employees. 
- Proactively identify user needs and services in a dynamic and fast-paced academic library environment. 
- Serve as a mentor, manager, and leader to MDL staff and librarians. 
- Participate in library-wide committees. 
- Align projects and planning with the UofT and UTL mission and Strategic Plan. 
- Be flexible and act with fairness and integrity. 
- Be strongly committed to the values of inclusivity, diversity, anti-racism, equity, and accessibility in academic libraries. 
  
This position reports to the Associate Chief Librarian for Data Services, Digital Scholarship and Information Technologies. As a collegial member of the MDL team, the Head will directly participate in library activities, including research support, teaching, and collection development. 

**Required Qualifications:**

- Master’s degree in library, archival or information science from an accredited institution. 
- Demonstrated leadership skills. 
- Demonstrated commitment to the values of inclusivity, diversity, equity, accessibility, and anti-racism. 
- Relevant administrative, managerial, and supervisory experience. 
- Strong organizational, budget management, planning, and project management skills, including proven experience building, licensing and managing collections as well as large-scale projects. 
- Active participation in professional organizations and continuous learning. 
- Proven skills and experience in one or more of the following areas: Statistics, Data Sciences, Geographic Information Systems, Text and Data Mining, or Research Data Management. 
- Knowledge of initiatives and trends related to the evolving scholarly communication landscape and research in Data Sciences, Research Data Management, Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and Digital Scholarship fields. 
- Commitment to proactive and innovative information services that serve the needs of the MDL community; demonstrated ability to foster a culture of innovation and thrive in an environment of change. 
- Demonstrated ability to work independently, as well as collaboratively as a member of a team, including building effective partnerships across libraries to achieve shared goals. 
- Excellent interpersonal, written, and verbal communication skills. 
- Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills. 
- Experience in the provision of research support, instruction and selection for academic and research communities; demonstrated ability to work creatively and effectively with faculty, staff, and students. 
- Proficiency in one or more of the following tools or languages: Statistical, GIS or Qualitative software, as well as scripting language experience with R or Python or equivalent 
- Familiarity with technology and emerging trends in machine learning and artificial intelligence applications broadly within academic libraries and specifically in a data library environment. 
 
The successful candidate must qualify for an appointment at a Librarian III rank. All qualified candidates are encouraged to apply; however, Canadians and permanent residents will be given priority. 

**Preferred Qualifications:**

Academic background in one or more of the following: Data Sciences, GIS, Research Data Management, Qualitative Research, or equivalent library professional or work experience in these subject areas. 
Knowledge and awareness of Canadian Tri-Agencies’ research data and related policies. 

Benefits: We offer generous benefits packages to all employees. Additional information is available at: [https://people.utoronto.ca/careers/benefits/](https://people.utoronto.ca/careers/benefits/)

**Salary and Terms of Appointment:**

It is anticipated that this position will be filled at the Librarian III level, subject to review and experience. Minimum salary:LIB III; $102,023 (Salary is dependent on rank at hire and qualifications).  This is a permanent status stream position.

**Job Location**

Toronto, ON
