+++
title = "David & Nancy Petrone GIS Librarian"
employer = "University of Oregon"
employerurl = "https://uoregon.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.uoregon.edu/en-us/job/533378/david-nancy-petrone-gis-librarian"
postdate = "2024-03-15"
archivedate = "2024-04-16"
draft = "false"
+++

**David & Nancy Petrone GIS Librarian**

Exciting news! The University of Oregon Libraries has committed to creating a full-time GIS Librarian position to support UO’s growing Data Sciences Program and the increasing use of spatial technologies in research on campus.  This newly defined position is a great opportunity to join a growing and dynamic Data Services team.  If you are a GIS librarian interested in supporting students through GIS and spatial data-oriented instruction and research support, please consider joining our library team here in Eugene, Oregon.

**Department:** Libraries

**Rank:** Associate Librarian

**Annual Basis:** 12 Month

**Salary:** Associate Librarian: $63,000 - $76,000 per year and Senior Librarian: $73,000 - $92,000 per year

**Department Summary**

The University of Oregon Libraries is an essential partner in the University of Oregon’s educational, research, and public service mission. With five locations on the Eugene campus and branches at UO Portland and the Oregon Institute of Marine Biology, the UO Libraries offers many flexible service- and technology-rich environments for our users’ research, learning, and publishing needs.  

The UO Libraries’ mission is informing research and learning breakthroughs for Oregon. We strive to realize our vision of being a model for the enduring, positive impact that research libraries can have on their academic and civic communities. We do that with an unwavering commitment to our values. Learn more about the UO Libraries’ strategic design, our values, and our goals at [library.uoregon.edu/strategy](https://library.uoregon.edu/strategy) 

The University of Oregon Libraries is the only Association of Research Libraries (ARL) member in Oregon. The library is a member of the Orbis Cascade Alliance, SPARC, Center for Research Libraries, DuraSpace, the Council on Library and Information Resources, Coalition of Networked Information, EDUCAUSE, and other major organizations. For more information about the UO Libraries, go to [https://library.uoregon.edu/overview](https://library.uoregon.edu/overview).

**About Open Research**

In the UO Libraries, the Department of Open Research (DOOR) collaborates with researchers to build and manage open, accessible, and sustainable scholarly outputs that engage our civic and academic communities. DOOR provides the University of Oregon with scholarly communication services, supporting current and emerging needs regarding data, open publishing, and public scholarship. This technology-forward department is charged with coordinating library programs related to research data management and reproducibility, open-access publishing, open educational resources and affordability, the institutional repository, and public digital scholarship. DOOR engages researchers at every stage of their career, offering collaboration, consultation, and community, as well as high-impact pedagogical experiences. The department makes contributions to decreasing the cost of knowledge and education, supporting new models of scholarly communication, and enhancing research practices and outputs.

The University of Oregon is an equal opportunity, affirmative action institution committed to cultural diversity and compliance with the ADA. The University encourages all qualified individuals to apply and does not discriminate on the basis of any protected status, including veteran and disability status. The University is committed to providing reasonable accommodations to applicants and employees with disabilities.

**Position Summary**

Reporting to the Head of Data Services, the David & Nancy Petrone GIS Librarian supports student success through the development of GIS (geographic information systems) and spatial data-oriented instruction and research support. The librarian develops and delivers course-integrated, extracurricular, and (potentially) credit-bearing instruction.

The incumbent accelerates the university's research ambitions through proactive engagement with stakeholders across the University to develop, propose, and contribute to strategic research and teaching projects. These projects align with the Libraries’ strategic objectives and departmental focus on spatial data management, public scholarship, and engagement with GIS technologies.

The David & Nancy Petrone GIS Librarian participates in relevant professional development activities and organizations to stay current with trends and practices in the field, and to meet criteria for promotion and retention. This position contributes to the University’s goals regarding equity and inclusion.

We are aware that some individuals are less likely to apply for jobs unless they meet every qualification in the job description including the preferred qualifications. We are most interested in finding the best candidate for the job and recognize that a successful candidate may come from a less traditional career trajectory, such as having skills and abilities gained outside a classroom context, or an equivalent skill set. We encourage you to apply, even if you don’t believe you meet every one of our preferred qualifications.

**Minimum Requirements**

Minimum Qualifications for Rank of Associate Librarian

- Master’s degree in library/information science from an ALA-accredited institution OR professional terminal degree, OR international equivalent, AND
- Six years professional library experience

Minimum Qualifications for Rank of Senior Librarian

- Master’s degree in library/information science from an ALA-accredited institution OR professional terminal degree, OR international equivalent, AND
- Twelve years professional library experience

**Professional Competencies**

- Demonstrated ability to create, process, organize, use, and analyze spatial data
- Experience with teaching, instruction, or training
- Familiarity with GIS software such as ArcGIS or qGIS
- Ability to plan, prioritize, coordinate, and implement projects
- Ability to work effectively in team situations, both within and across departments and external organizations
- Ability to integrate knowledge of social justice, inclusion, oppression, privilege, and power into one’s professional practice

**Preferred Qualifications**

- Degree or advanced coursework in geography, data science, informatics, or other relevant discipline
- Knowledge of statistical analysis and proficiency with at least one software package and/or programming languages such as Python, R, SPSS, or Stata

The University of Oregon is proud to offer a robust benefits package to eligible employees, including health insurance, retirement plans and paid time off. For more information about benefits, visit [http://hr.uoregon.edu/careers/about-benefits](http://hr.uoregon.edu/careers/about-benefits).

The University of Oregon is an equal opportunity, affirmative action institution committed to cultural diversity and compliance with the ADA. The University encourages all qualified individuals to apply, and does not discriminate on the basis of any protected status, including veteran and disability status. The University is committed to providing reasonable accommodations to applicants and employees with disabilities. To request an accommodation in connection with the application process, please contact us at uocareers@uoregon.edu or 541-346-5112.

UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination.

**Job Location**

Eugene, OR
