+++
title = " Head of Research Data Services"
employer = "University at Buffalo"
employerurl = "https://www.buffalo.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://www.ubjobs.buffalo.edu/postings/53656"
postdate = "2024-11-11"
archivedate = "2024-12-10"
draft = "false"
+++

**Head of Research Data Services**

I am very excited to share that we are hiring a Head of Research Data Services at the University at Buffalo (UB) Libraries. This is a brand-new position and the person in this role will have the opportunity to help build the department from the ground up. The position will supervise our data librarian and another data librarian to be hired in the near future.

**Position Summary**
	
The **Head, Research Data Services** at the [University at Buffalo Libraries](https://library.buffalo.edu/) leads a dynamic and evolving team to create and deliver programming, resources, and services to support researchers at every stage of the data lifecycle. The individual in this position will assist researchers in meeting the data management and sharing requirements of funding agencies and publishers and help guide researchers in creating data sets of value to others outside of the context in which the data were developed. They will prioritize the development of strong, collaborative relationships with relevant offices, departments, and centers across the UB community.

**Primary duties will include:**

- Developing and implementing strategic plans for research data services in alignment with the university’s and the libraries’ mission, values, and vision.
- Supervising and mentoring University Libraries faculty and staff responsible for providing research data services, including data management, sharing, curation, and preservation.
- Identifying, developing, and implementing new services and resources to support researchers in managing their data throughout the research lifecycle.
- Organizing and delivering training sessions, workshops, and outreach programs to educate researchers on best practices for managing and sharing research data effectively.
- Providing expert consultation services to researchers on data management plans, data organization, metadata standards, data documentation, and other topics pertaining to data discovery, sharing, and curation.
- Collaborating with other library departments, academic units, and external partners to integrate research data services into existing programs and initiatives in the library and across the university.
- Collaborating with University Libraries Information Technology (ULIT) and UB Information Technology (UBIT) on the selection, implementation, and maintenance of technology tools and platforms for managing, sharing and curating research data, including data repositories.
- Develop and implement policies and procedures for the library related to supporting our services, including the access, curation, security, stewardship, and preservation of research data.

The University Libraries is a welcoming multicultural environment that serves an increasingly diverse constituency of patrons. Our employees, services, collections, and policies honor and reflect this diversity and we invite individuals to apply whose perspectives and experiences will enrich and strengthen our organization.

**Outstanding Benefits Package**

Working at UB comes with benefits that exceed salary alone. There are personal rewards including comprehensive health and retirement plan options. We also focus on creating and sustaining a healthy mix of work, personal and academic pursuit – all in an effort to support your work-life effectiveness. We support your growth and development through our career coaching and training department and we qualify as a public service loan forgiveness organization. Learn more about our [benefit packages](https://www.buffalo.edu/administrative-services/for-faculty-staff/benefits/state/uup.html).

**About The University at Buffalo**

The University at Buffalo (UB) #ubuffalo is one of America’s leading public research universities and a flagship of the State University of New York system, recognized for our excellence and our impact. UB is a premier, research-intensive public university dedicated to academic excellence. Our research, creative activity and people positively impact the world. Like the city we call home, UB is distinguished by a culture of resilient optimism, resourceful thinking and pragmatic dreaming that enables us to reach others every day. Visit our website to learn more about the [University at Buffalo](https://buffalo.edu).

University at Buffalo is an affirmative action/equal opportunity employer and, in keeping with our commitment, welcomes all to apply including veterans and individuals with disabilities.

**Minimum Qualifications**	

- A bachelor’s degree with three years of relevant experience, or a master’s degree with one year of relevant experience.
- Experience in supporting research data management and dissemination, including knowledge of documentation and metadata standards, approaches to support preservation, and best practices for sharing data.
- Excellent communication, collaboration, and engagement skills.
- Ability to articulate a vision, set direction and carry out initiatives in a rapidly changing environment.
- Experience in developing curricula and teaching.
- Demonstrated knowledge of federal policies and requirements as they pertain to data management and sharing.
- A commitment to enhancing diversity, equity, and inclusion in organizations.

**Preferred Qualifications**

- Knowledge of at least one programming language (e.g., Python, R, SQL) and how it can be applied to data management, sharing, curation and preservation work.
- Supervisory experience.
- Experience in developing new projects or services.
- Experience writing grant proposals and supporting faculty grants.
- Cross-disciplinary subject knowledge and a research background in data management in one or more areas of science, engineering, health science, social science, or the humanities.

**Salary**

$83,000 - $90,000 annually

**Job Location**

Buffalo, NY
