+++
title = "Data Analyst"
employer = "University of Rochester"
employerurl = "https://www.rochester.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://ps.its.rochester.edu/psp/PSApplyOnline/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/c/HRS_HRAM_FL.HRS_CG_SEARCH_FL.GBL?Page=HRS_APP_JBPST_FL&Action=U&FOCUS=Applicant&SiteId=1&JobOpeningId=254757&PostingSeq=1"
postdate = "2024-08-26"
archivedate = "2024-09-05"
draft = "false"
+++

**Data Analyst**

**GENERAL PURPOSE:**

The Data Analyst plays a key role in encouraging and guiding the high-level collection, use, and analysis of data to support and enrich the university’s research activities, and to understand and demonstrate the impact of the university’s research enterprise. Reporting to the Director of Science & Engineering Libraries and Research Initiatives, and in close collaboration with library and institutional colleagues, this role analyzes and interprets data using statistical techniques. They will provide expertise on research metrics, data analysis and programming, and communicating with data. The incumbent utilizes best practices to leverage data and coding skills, alongside creative approaches to problem solving, to develop tools and analyses that enable evidence-based decision making, and that enhance the programs and services offered in support of university researchers.

To achieve these responsibilities, the incumbent will collaborate closely with campus partners (e.g., Office of Global Engagement, Office of the Vice President for Research, University IT, Office of Research IT) to:

- develop methods for data collection, analysis, and reporting for international and national university ranking organizations and associated methodologies,
- explore and analyze bibliometric and other data,
- identify actionable insights and recommendations, and
- create compelling presentations and reports based on findings.

The Data Analyst will further collaborate with library colleagues (e.g., Library professionals from Learning and Research Initiatives; Scholarly Communication Team; Digital Initiatives; Assessment and User Engagement; iZone) to leverage new technologies and methods that support the creation and iteration of data-informed programs and services.

**JOB DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:**

**Conduct Research Impact Analysis**

- Provide expertise and support on projects that seek to measure and accurately represent the university’s research profiles and reputation in local information systems, as well as external platforms, databases, and information sources.
- Adopt a technical leadership role on Research Initiatives projects and advise on best practices and approaches to innovate the analysis and use of research impact data.

**Support University Rankings Analysis**

- Conduct ongoing data collection and analysis to develop and maintain dashboards, models, and other tools focused on monitoring, understanding, and assessing bibliometric indicators related to university research activities.
- Remain current on trends and issues in university rankings, research impact, and research evaluation.

**Communicate with Data**

- Develop reports, visualizations, and other digital or interactive outputs focused on communicating university research impact, research strengths, and emerging trends to decision makers.
- Working with library and university colleagues, leverage data to help construct compelling stories about university research and the role of the library in supporting that work.
- Remain current on trends and best practices related to communicating with data.

**Provides Training on Data Analysis**

- Provide training, support, and expertise on existing and emerging research tools and workflows, with an emphasis on developing and improving data and digital literacy.
- Collaborate with the Data Services Team and campus partners to support the development of a robust graduate and postgraduate support program by leveraging data to assess researcher needs and create data-informed programs and services.

**Cultivate relationships**

- Serve as liaison between the River Campus Libraries, Library IT, and other departments across the university to support data collection, reporting, and analysis.
- Consult with liaison librarians and other library colleagues to support data-related projects.
- Provide technical expertise on university initiatives related to research impact and research evaluation.

**Perform other duties as assigned, including but not limited to:**

- Maintain currency with library functions, resources, practices, and procedures.
- Participate in and contribute towards River Campus Libraries and University committees, meetings, and events.
- Maintain professional collaborations with River Campus Libraries and campus constituencies.


**QUALIFICATIONS:**

**Required:**

- Bachelor’s Degree in statistical analysis, data base management, or related studies, or equivalent combination of education and experience
- 3 years’ experience with data analysis or customer resource management systems
- Advanced skills with Microsoft Excel
- Demonstrated ability to discover, and quickly become competent using new technologies, software, and devices; willingness to explore the use of innovative technologies with a high tolerance for risk and failure.

**Preferred:**

- Strong interpersonal skills and abilities, and comfortable working collaboratively in a team environment.
- Self-starter who is flexible, creative, and open to new challenges.
- Experience working with programming languages such as Python or R.
- Experience working with APIs and web services.
- Experience working with research impact tools and metrics.
- Experience in network science analytics.
- Experience with Tableau or other visualization software.
- Familiarity with project management tools, methods and/or workflows.
- Outstanding customer service.
- Emotional intelligence. 
- Cultural humility.

Pay Range: $51,810 - $72,534 Annually

**Job Location**

Rochester, NY
