+++
title = "Reference and Research Services Librarian for Social Sciences and Economics"
employer = "New York University (Shanghai)"
employerurl = "https://shanghai.nyu.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://apply.interfolio.com/140373"
postdate = "2024-02-04"
archivedate = "2024-03-22"
draft = "false"
+++

**Reference and Research Services Librarian for Social Sciences and Economics**

The New York University Shanghai Library seeks a Reference and Research Services Librarian for Social Sciences and Economics. The successful candidate will establish strong relationships with faculty and students in the social sciences disciplines, and connect them to the services, content and tools that meet their research, teaching and learning needs. We seek candidates who have the capacity to thrive in a fast developing environment, and have enthusiasm for building more experience on the job.

**Responsibilities**

- Working in a collaborative environment, this position serves as the Library’s primary liaison to faculty and students in Social Sciences and Economics programs and research institutes. The incumbent:

- Provides in-person, chat and email reference services and research consultations to members of the NYU community, with a focus on social sciences and economics resources and datasets.

- Develops research guides and provides in-person and virtual instruction in identifying, accessing and using library and open resources, and datasets.

- Provides specialized research and instructional support to students and faculty in social science and economics programs as needed.

- Stays current with social sciences and economics research (e.g. methods and data resources); builds collections in all formats that support teaching and research.

- Participates in library orientation programs and general information literacy instructions as needed.

- Develops responsive outreach and other information services; and takes a leadership role on projects and initiatives as appropriate.

- Partners with colleagues at NYU New York, NYU Abu Dhabi, and across NYU’s global network to implement and enhance programs & services.

- Participates in library and system-wide committees and professional activities outside of the University.

- Other duties as assigned.

Terms of employment at [NYU Shanghai](https://shanghai.nyu.edu/academics/faculty) are comparable to NYU New York and other U.S. institutions.  

**Qualifications**

**Education**

- ALA-accredited MLS (or equivalent) or other graduate degree is required.

- Second master’s degree in a subject area relevant to the NYU Shanghai academic program preferred.

- Candidates with a degree or substantial coursework in library science will be prioritized.

**Experience, Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities**

- Strong commitment to reference service, library instruction and information literacy principles.

- Previous experience or course work in reference service, library instruction and knowledge of collection development in an academic or research library context.

- Demonstrated experience providing strong customer service and quality services, including developing creative solutions in responsible areas to support and engage users.

- Familiarity with social sciences and economics research resources and tools.

- Demonstrated excellent communication and interpersonal skills.

- Knowledge of qualitative and quantitative data tools preferred.

- Familiarity with systematic review and meta-analysis methodology preferred.

- High proficiency in oral and written English; ability to read and speak Chinese preferred.

- Experience working in a culturally diverse environment and/or prior international experience preferred.

- Preference will be given to candidates with demonstrated social sciences and/or economics subject experience in an academic library environment; or an advanced degree in related discipline.

**Application Instructions**

For consideration, please submit the following application materials. Priority will be given to applications received before February 23, 2024. 

- Cover Letter

- Curriculum Vitae

- Names & Contact information for three professional references

If you have any questions, please email the NYU Shanghai NY Office of Faculty Recruitment shanghai.faculty.recruitment@nyu.edu. 

**About the Social Sciences at NYU Shanghai**

NYU Shanghai offers degree programs in Economics, Social Work, and nine tracks in the Social Sciences, including anthropology, environmental studies, global health, international relations, political economy, politics, psychology, sociology, and urban studies. These programs integrate a range of perspectives and methodologies to approach social phenomena, and utilize analytical, ethnographic, experimental, interpretive, and statistical tools in teaching, learning and Scholarship.

**NYU Shanghai Library**

The Library of NYU Shanghai delivers and coordinates a wide range of academic services that support the teaching, learning and research of NYU Shanghai’s faculty and students. Drawing on the resources of the libraries at NYU New York, the NYU Shanghai library provides an opportunity to create a forward-looking 21st century library program and facility to serve a culturally diverse and academically talented population.

**About NYU Shanghai**

[NYU Shanghai](https://shanghai.nyu.edu/academics/faculty) is the third degree-granting campus within New York University’s Global Network. It is the first higher education joint venture in China authorized to grant degrees that are accredited in the U.S. as well as in China. All teaching is conducted in English. A research university with liberal arts and science at its core, NYU Shanghai resides in one of the world's great cities with a vibrant intellectual community. NYU Shanghai recruits scholars of the highest caliber who are committed to NYU's global vision of transformative teaching and innovative research and who embody the global society in which we live.

NYU’s Global Network includes degree-granting campuses in New York, Shanghai, and Abu Dhabi, complemented by twelve additional academic centers across the world. Faculty and students may circulate within the network in pursuit of common research interests and cross-cultural, interdisciplinary endeavors, both local and global.

For people in the EU, click here for information on your privacy rights under GDPR: [www.nyu.edu/it/gdpr](https://www.nyu.edu/it/gdpr).

**Job Location**

Shanghai, China
