+++
title = "Open Science, Research & Engagement Librarian"
employer = "University of California Santa Barbara"
employerurl = "https://www.ucsb.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://recruit.ap.ucsb.edu/JPF02739"
postdate = "2024-04-25"
archivedate = "2024-05-17"
draft = "false"
+++

**Open Science, Research & Engagement Librarian**

The University of California, Santa Barbara (UCSB) Library seeks an innovative, strategic, forward-thinking professional for an exciting opportunity to serve as the Open Science, Research, & Engagement Librarian. 

The current base pay range is $61,920-$149,167.

**Job Summary:**

The University of California, Santa Barbara (UCSB) Library, seeks an innovative, strategic, forward-thinking professional for an exciting opportunity to serve as the Open Science, Research & Engagement Librarian in STEM. Reporting to the Director, Research & Engagement, the position will be a member of the Research & Engagement department and part of the Subject Librarian Program, providing research and instructional support to all academic departments on campus.

The University of California libraries and the University of California (UC) through the California Digital Library (CDL), have been leaders in open science for over a decade, investing in open tools and repositories such as eScholarship, the DMPTool, and Dryad and are now on the forefront of the move to transformative open access publishing agreements. UCSB researchers manage several open data repositories and networks including DataONE, Knowledge Network for Biocomplexity (KNB), and the Arctic Data Center, and the campus is home to a rapidly growing set of data science curricula, including an undergraduate major in the Statistics Department and a Master of Environmental Data Science degree. One of the key priorities in UCSB Library’s new strategic plan is to advance open science [https://www.library.ucsb.edu/StrategicPlan](https://www.library.ucsb.edu/StrategicPlan).

The Open Science, Research & Engagement Librarian will contribute to the advancement of open science in the campus’ research ecosystem, serving as an expert and advocate for open science principles, tools, and practices. The incumbent will be actively involved in envisioning and shaping new approaches to how the Library supports scientific disciplines and communities at UCSB in collaboration with other Library departments and staff. They will help accelerate Library support in the data-driven STEM disciplines by identifying strategic campus-wide opportunities, such as with the Office of Research and Information Technology Services, for the development of new initiatives and services.

The Open Science, Research & Engagement Librarian will proactively engage with STEM academic departments [https://www.science.ucsb.edu/programs](https://www.science.ucsb.edu/programs) assigned based upon expertise as part of the Subject Librarian Program. They will participate in a cross-divisional Library team focused on strategic advances in open science services, instruction, and support. The librarian will be actively involved in service and tool development and promotion of key pieces of open science infrastructure, such as ORCID, DataCite, eScholarship, Research Organization Registry (RoR), and Open Science Framework (OSF).

As part of the Research & Engagement team, the librarian will actively identify and assess opportunities on campus. They will be actively involved in shaping the future of the Research & Engagement Department and the Subject Librarian Program, and the innovative transformation of its services to meet the emerging needs of the campus in an ever-evolving research and learning landscape.

The University of California, Santa Barbara, is one of ten campuses that comprise the University of California system. It is a member of the Association of American Universities and the Association of Research Libraries.

Salary information can be found at [https://ap.ucsb.edu/compensation.and.benefits/ucsb.salary.scales/26B.pdf](https://ap.ucsb.edu/compensation.and.benefits/ucsb.salary.scales/26B.pdf). Librarians at the University of California, Santa Barbara, are professional academic appointees who accrue vacation at the rate of two days per month and sick leave at the rate of one day per month. The University has excellent retirement plans and a selection of group health, dental, vision, and life insurance plans. Benefits information can be found at
[https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/compensation-and-benefits/index.html](https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/compensation-and-benefits/index.html). This position is eligible for a flexible work arrangement that includes a combination of onsite and remote work.

The Open Science, Research & Engagement Librarian will be a member of the LX Collective Bargaining Unit represented by the American Federation of Teachers. Additional information can be found at [https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/labor/bargaining-units/lx/index.html](https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/labor/bargaining-units/lx/index.html).

Appointment or continued employment is contingent on successful completion of a background check.

The University is especially interested in candidates who can contribute to the diversity and excellence of the academic community through research, teaching, and service as appropriate to the position.

**RESPONSIBILITIES**

Under the direction of the Director of Research & Engagement, the Research & Engagement Librarian in Humanities & Social Sciences:

- Works in a team-based environment to promote open science principles, tools, and practices, and engages research communities across campus
- Collaborates with Research Data Services, the DREAM Lab, and the Collection Strategies Department to develop and provide Library support for evolving open science needs in STEM disciplines, such as enabling data-driven and reproducible research, digital scholarship, and scholarly communication
- Engages proactively with assigned STEM academic departments, faculty, researchers, and students to provide support for their research and instruction
- Collaborates with Research Data Services and the DREAM Lab to design and teach campus-wide library workshops, with emphasis on open science, fostering data literacy and data management competencies and skills.
- Provides library-related instruction to assigned academic departments.
- Explores, designs, and implements strategic approaches with colleagues to increase the impact and reach of UCSB’s research.
- As a Research & Engagement team member, identifies and assesses programmatic, service, and project opportunities across campus.
- Follows developments in open science, shares trends and patterns, coordinates learning opportunities, and provides overall open science expertise to the Subject Librarian Program.

**QUALIFICATIONS**

Basic qualifications (required at time of application)

- Master’s degree in library/information science (ALA-accreditation) OR another relevant advanced degree

Additional qualifications (required at time of start)

- Demonstrated knowledge of open science principles, tools, practices, and trends
- Excellent written communication skills as evidenced by submitted materials including the CV, cover letter, and optional statement of contributions to diversity

Preferred qualifications

- Advanced degree in a STEM discipline
- At least two years of relevant experience in an academic research environment, scientific, or related setting
- Experience identifying and initiating programmatic opportunities and initiatives
- Strong collaboration skills demonstrated by experience working effectively across organizational boundaries and with diverse stakeholder groups
- Experience with project management tools or familiarity with continuous process improvement methodologies
- Familiarity with research data management and digital scholarship practices
- Strong assessment and data analysis skills. Proven ability to gather, assess, interpret, visualize, and communicate quantitative and qualitative data for varied audiences using common Open Source programming tools such as R or Python
- Demonstrated organizational skills sufficient to balance multiple priorities, deadlines, and changing project parameters
- Experience providing research support and instructional services
- Aptitude for learning and adopting emerging technologies
- Ability to work effectively in a collaborative and culturally diverse environment

**Job Location**

Santa Barbara, CA
