+++
title = "Data Management and Sharing Specialist"
employer = "Washington University in St. Louis"
employerurl = "https://wustl.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://wustl.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/External/job/Olin-Library/Data-Management-and-Sharing-Specialist---University-Libraries_JR85017"
postdate = "2024-10-18"
archivedate = "2024-11-13"
draft = "false"
+++

**Data Management and Sharing Specialist**

This is a newly created position is within the [Data Services team in WashU Libraries](https://library.wustl.edu/research-support/data-services/) and is co-founded by our [Digital Intelligence and Innovation Accelerator](https://di2accelerator.wustl.edu/).  

A feature of this position is a hybrid schedule, which means at least one on-campus day per week. WashU is a R1 university with a commitment to DEI and to the city of St. Louis. St. Louis is a friendly, accessible, affordable, midwestern US city with growing diversity, innovation, free museums, a strong visual art, music, and cultural representation, major league baseball and soccer teams, great food, kid-friendly activities, and wonderful parks and green spaces. 

A salary clarification: the salary range listed refers to the grade range ($65,900.00 - $112,700.00, annually); the grade range is the least or most that position can ever make. The hiring range, which is what we can offer at the start, is $65,900.00 - $85,700.00, annually. 

**Position Summary**

The data management and sharing specialist (DMSS), reporting to the head of data services in the University Libraries, is a shared position between the Libraries and Digital Intelligence & Innovation Accelerator (DI2). The DMSS will be responsible for guiding research data sharing efforts at WashU, including collaboration and coordination with research data sharing stakeholders across campus, user outreach and consultation, oversight of data management planning services, repository management support and development, and curation and management of research datasets and tools that support resource sharing.

**Job Description**

**Primary Duties & Responsibilities:**

- Researches Data Sharing services, coordinates research data sharing efforts between stakeholders and service providers on campus (e.g., Becker Medical Library, OVCR, etc.). Provides consultations to users on data sharing and curate research datasets. Coordinates and manages guidance in the DMPtool, reviews data management plans, and provides outreach and instruction to campus on data management planning and data management best practices.
- Contributes to the management and development of WURD by evaluating and improving workflows, researching ways to improve access to data collections.
- Coordinates the development and management of research resource sharing tools, management of data collection in cooperation with services providers, and management of data and access tools. 
- Trains and stays informed on new and emerging technologies, methodologies and implementation strategies relating to research data. Recommends and communicates new solutions in a professional manner to faculty and staff. 
- Performs other duties as assigned.

**Working Conditions:**

Job Location/Working Conditions

- Normal office environment
Physical Effort

- Typically working at desk or table
- Repetitive wrist, hand or finger movement
Equipment

- Office equipment

The above statements are intended to describe the general nature and level of work performed by people assigned to this classification. They are not intended to be construed as an exhaustive list of all job duties performed by the personnel so classified. Management reserves the right to revise or amend duties at any time.

**Required Qualifications**

**Education:**

- Bachelor's degree

**Certifications:**

- No specific certification is required for this position.

**Work Experience:**

Relevant Experience (2 Years)

**Skills:**

Big Data Management, Data Sharing, Generative AI, Large Language Models (LLMs), Machine Learning

**Driver's License:**

A driver's license is not required for this position.

**More About This Job**

**Preferred Qualifications**

- Three years of experience with data management, sharing and curation, including technical aspects.
- Demonstrated knowledge of the CURATE(D) method for dataset review.

**Preferred Qualifications**

**Education:**

Master's degree - Information Science/ Computer Technology

**Certifications:**

No additional certification beyond what is stated in the Required Qualifications section.

**Work Experience:**

No additional work experience beyond what is stated in the Required Qualifications section.

**Skills:**

Apple Applications, Communication, Data Collection Methods, Deadline Management, JavaScript, Learning New Technologies, Linux, Mac OS X Development, NoSQL, Professional Services Delivery, Project Organization, Python (Programming Language), Relational Database Management, R Programming, Structured Query Language (SQL), Teamwork, Training Presentations, VM (Operating System), Windows Applications, XML User Interface Language (XUL)

**Salary Range**

$65,900.00 - $112,700.00 / Annually

The salary range reflects base salaries paid for positions in a given job grade across the University. Individual rates within the range will be determined by factors including one's qualifications and performance, equity with others in the department, market rates for positions within the same grade and department budget.

**Questions**

For frequently asked questions about the application process, please refer to our [External Applicant FAQ](https://hr.wustl.edu/careers/external-applicant-faq/).

**Accommodation**

If you are unable to use our online application system and would like an accommodation, please email CandidateQuestions@wustl.edu or call the dedicated accommodation inquiry number at 314-935-1149 and leave a voicemail with the nature of your request.

All qualified individuals must be able to perform the essential functions of the position satisfactorily and, if requested, reasonable accommodations will be made to enable employees with disabilities to perform the essential functions of their job, absent undue hardship.

**Pre-Employment Screening**

All external candidates receiving an offer for employment will be required to submit to pre-employment screening for this position. The screenings will include criminal background check and, as applicable for the position, other background checks, drug screen, an employment and education or licensure/certification verification, physical examination, certain vaccinations and/or governmental registry checks. All offers are contingent upon successful completion of required screening.

**Benefits Statement**

Personal

- Up to 22 days of vacation, 10 recognized holidays, and sick time.
- Competitive health insurance packages with priority appointments and lower copays/coinsurance.
- Take advantage of our free Metro transit U-Pass for eligible employees.
- WashU provides eligible employees with a defined contribution (403(b)) Retirement Savings Plan, which combines employee contributions and university contributions starting at 7%.

Wellness

- Wellness challenges, annual health screenings, mental health resources, mindfulness programs and courses, employee assistance program (EAP), financial resources, access to dietitians, and more!

Family

- We offer 4 weeks of caregiver leave to bond with your new child. Family care resources are also available for your continued childcare needs. Need adult care? We’ve got you covered.
- WashU covers the cost of tuition for you and your family, including dependent undergraduate-level college tuition up to 100% at WashU and 40% elsewhere after seven years with us.

For policies, detailed benefits, and eligibility, please visit: [https://hr.wustl.edu/benefits/](https://hr.wustl.edu/benefits/)

**Job Location**

St. Louis, MO
