+++
title = "Science Instruction Librarian"
employer = "University of California Berkeley"
employerurl = "https://www.berkeley.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://aprecruit.berkeley.edu/JPF04369"
postdate = "2024-05-24"
archivedate = "2024-07-22"
draft = "false"
+++

**Science Instruction Librarian**

**POSITION OVERVIEW**

Position title: Associate Librarian, Career Status or Potential Career Status

Salary range: The UC academic salary scales set the minimum pay determined by rank and salary point at appointment. See the following table(s) for the current salary scale(s) for this position: [https://www.ucop.edu/academic-personnel-programs/_files/2023-24/july-2023-acad-salary-scales/t26-b.pdf](https://www.ucop.edu/academic-personnel-programs/_files/2023-24/july-2023-acad-salary-scales/t26-b.pdf). A reasonable estimate for this position is $68,885-$89,916.

Percent time: 100%

Position duration: This is a full-time potential career appointment.

**POSITION DESCRIPTION**

The University of California, Berkeley Library seeks a creative, collaborative, and user-centered librarian committed to demystifying research, sparking critical thinking, and unlocking information resources for students in STEM fields. The position serves as the selector and liaison for three or more departments within the College of Engineering, supporting world-class research and teaching in science and engineering disciplines through active engagement with instruction, information literacy, research assistance, collection development, scholarly communications, and outreach to students, faculty, and the broader academic community.

**The Environment**

The UC Berkeley Library is an internationally renowned teaching and research facility at one of the nation's premier public universities. A highly diverse and intellectually rich environment, Berkeley serves a campus community of 30,000 undergraduate students, over 11,000 graduate students, and 1,500 faculty. With a collection of more than 13 million volumes and a collections budget of over $15 million, the Library offers extensive collections in all formats and robust services to connect users with those collections and build their related research skills.

The Library’s Sciences Division consists of five libraries including the Kresge Engineering Library, where this position will be based. The Division staff include 10 librarians, 15 staff, and over 50 student employees, who collectively support the research, teaching, and study needs of students and faculty in the College of Chemistry, College of Engineering, College of Letters & Science’s Biological Sciences Division, College of Letters & Science’s Mathematical & Physical Sciences Division, Division of Computing, Data Science & Society’s Departments of EECS and Statistics, Department of Geography, School of Optometry, School of Public Health, and an array of Organized Research Units. The Sciences Division actively strives to create a welcoming, collaborative, inclusive, and accessible culture.

**Responsibilities**

Reporting to the Head of the Sciences Division, the Science Instruction Librarian supports students and researchers who are solving complex problems through science, technology, and engineering. The successful candidate plays a key role in cultivating information literacy and research skills among students in the sciences, especially undergraduates. The librarian collaborates with faculty to design information literacy instruction that seamlessly integrates with their curriculum and student needs, developing and presenting course-related instruction, drop-in workshops, and online instructional materials. This position will partner with the STEM Research & Instructional Services Lead and other librarians to conduct curriculum reviews, identify instruction targets, revise our library instruction program for the introductory biology laboratory course, and rebuild our library instruction program in engineering. The ideal candidate is committed to professional growth in the areas of instructional theory and practice and may team up with other science librarians to incorporate evidence-based and inclusive pedagogy into their own instruction.

The librarian serves as the selector and liaison for three or more departments within the College of Engineering. To build research-level collections, the librarian contributes to collaborative collection development and management – collecting and curating information in a variety of formats including books, journals, and databases to support teaching and research in engineering. This requires collaboration with other librarians on campus and within the UC System on interdisciplinary and/or system-wide collection decisions and scholarly communication issues.

As a subject librarian, the successful candidate develops an understanding of research and teaching in their assigned departments, follows trends in those disciplines, and builds relationships with faculty and students through active engagement and outreach – conducting assessments of user needs, providing virtual and in-person research consultations, developing students’ data and information literacies, offering course-related library instruction and workshops, creating instructional materials in a variety of formats, and promoting library resources and services. The Science Instruction Librarian works closely with other science librarians and library-wide functional specialists to advance our shared goals and priorities.

UC Berkeley librarians are expected to participate in library-wide planning and governance, and work effectively in a shared decision-making environment. Advancement is partially based upon professional contributions beyond the primary assignment; the successful candidate will show evidence or promise of such contributions to the Library, campus, UC System, and profession.

The UC Berkeley Library is committed to supporting and encouraging a multicultural environment and seeks candidates who can make positive and imaginative contributions in a context of ethnic and cultural diversity.

UC professional librarians are academic appointees and are represented by an exclusive bargaining agent, the University Council – American Federation of Teachers (UC-AFT).

This position is in the bargaining unit. Librarians are eligible for professional development leave, vacation leave, sick leave, and all other benefits granted to non-faculty academic personnel. The University has an excellent retirement system and sponsors a variety of group health, dental, vision, and life insurance plans in addition to other benefits.

**QUALIFICATIONS**

Basic qualifications (required at time of application)

- Advanced degree or enrolled in an advanced degree program.

Additional qualifications (required at time of start)

- Advanced degree.

Preferred qualifications

- Master’s degree from an ALA-accredited institution or equivalent international degree
- Experience with or coursework in providing instructional services in an academic library
- Experience with or coursework in providing reference services in an academic library
- Knowledge of key frameworks and standards related to information literacy
- Knowledge of accessible and inclusive teaching practices and principles
- Familiarity with current and emerging trends in STEM research, publishing, or education
- Demonstrated commitment to collaboration and relationship building
- Demonstrated commitment to promoting underrepresented voices in STEM and fostering equity, diversity, and inclusion
- Demonstrated written communication skills


**ABOUT UC BERKELEY**

UC Berkeley is committed to diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging. The excellence of the institution requires an environment in which the diverse community of faculty, students, and staff are welcome and included. Successful candidates will demonstrate knowledge and skill related to ensuring equity and inclusion in the activities of their academic position (e.g., teaching, research, and service, as applicable).

The University of California, Berkeley is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, or protected veteran status.

Please refer to the [University of California’s Affirmative Action Policy](https://www.ucop.edu/academic-personnel-programs/_files/apm/apm-035.pdf) and the [University of California’s Anti-Discrimination Policy](https://policy.ucop.edu/doc/1001004/Anti-Discrimination).

In searches when letters of reference are required all letters will be treated as confidential per University of California policy and California state law. Please refer potential referees, including when letters are provided via a third party (i.e., dossier service or career center), to the [UC Berkeley statement of confidentiality](http://apo.berkeley.edu/ucb-confidentiality-policy) prior to submitting their letter.

As a University employee, you will be required to comply with all applicable University policies and/or collective bargaining agreements, as may be amended from time to time. Federal, state, or local government directives may impose additional requirements.

**Job Location**

Berkeley, CA
