+++
title = "Executive Editor"
employer = "Sage Data"
employerurl = "https://sagepub.com/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.sagepub.com/jobs/5215127-executive-editor"
postdate = "2024-11-26"
archivedate = "2024-12-11"
draft = "false"
+++

**Executive Editor**

As Executive Editor, you will oversee the editorial strategy and execution on Sage Data products, including the core Data Product (formerly Data Planet) and CQ Collections, in Sage Library Publishing. You will oversee for the growth and development of Sage Data into a mature, profitable product with significant market growth potential. You will develop and articulate the strategy to internal stakeholders, and build support as needed for platform initiatives. You will oversee the data sources included, assure their currency and quality, and identify new sources as dictated by market opportunity.

**Responsibilities:**

Strategy. With partners in Publishing Technologies, Product Management and Marketing, you will be responsible for Data strategy development and updating. This set of responsibilities will include:

- Leading product review and strategic planning sessions
- Coordinating market research plans with Market Research Analyst
- Analyzing internal and competitor data to interpret Sage market position and adapt strategy on an ongoing basis
- Developing formal strategy papers or updating strategy for Library Publishing Senior Management group on a regular basis
- Presenting strategy to internal and external stakeholders as needed
- Coordinating strategic initiatives to leverage other product streams as needed and agreed
- Translating strategy into product-specific objectives

Execution. You will be responsible for executing strategy to ensure growth and profitability of Sage Data. This will include:

- Manage editorial process of creating metadata describing content of statistical datasets.
- Monitor dataset load and update quality review, assuring dataset currency and communicating with sources as needed.
- Ensuring efficient development of quality content meeting Sage standards and library expectations
- Manage licensors and licensing of new datasets
- Inform and monitor licensing budgets
- Manage editorial product creation (dataset tracking and upload schedule)
- Respond to customer queries about resource
- Help drive sales and revenue by working with marketing and sales teams to help generate and inform opportunities, participating in sales calls as requested by sales.
- Demo products for customers and sales as needed

Management. You will oversee editors required to achieve the strategic goals for Data products.

- Evaluating resourcing needs to achieve objectives
- Translating resourcing needs into appropriate budgets and monitoring those budgets
- Setting and monitoring achievement of editor objectives
- Continuous performance feedback and career development for staff

**Qualifications:**

- Master’s or bachelor’s degree or equivalent experience in relevant field
- 5 years of experience as a data librarian, data professional or editorial manager
- Experience developing new products a plus
- Solid business judgment and data analytic skills
- Ability to work with project teams across departments and skill sets to get achieve complex initiatives
- Good interpersonal skills and professional temperament and demeanor
- Ability to read, analyze and interpret complex information, including business data and analytics, business concepts, market research reports, business requirements documents, etc.
- Public speaking experience a plus

Experience and knowledge in the areas of:

- Academic libraries market
- Content and collection development
- Metadata and taxonomy
- Database design and development
- Library standards and practices
- Statistics and data processing standards
- Information and data literacy
- Search and retrieval
- Publisher negotiations, licensing

**Pay Transparency & Benefits Package:**

Sage Publishing is committed to being an inclusive employer where all individuals are treated with fairness and respect. Sage is proud to be an equal opportunity workplace and is an affirmative action employer.

Compensation at Sage is influenced by several factors, including but not limited to skill set, nature and level of experience, qualifications, and other relevant considerations.  Please note that the compensation details listed in U.S. role postings reflect the base salary only and do not include bonuses or benefits. Your recruiter can share more about the specific salary range and additional aspects of the compensation/benefits package for this position during the hiring process. If your desired salary falls outside of this range, we hope you'll still apply as there may be other positions that better align.

In addition to compensation, Sage offers a highly competitive and comprehensive PPO medical, dental, and vision care benefits package with SAGE covering most of the premium costs. Unique program benefits that support a healthy life, a company-sponsored anniversary trip every 5 years, a 401(k)-matching program of 100% up to 5% of pay, and other significant meaningful benefits. In alignment with our value for education, Sage offers financial support for bachelor's and graduate-level degree programs as well as learning for personal interest.

Sage offers freedom and autonomy in your day-to-day with hybrid or remote work, depending on the role. Join the nearly 2,000 Sage employees worldwide who deliver products and services that serve to fulfill our noble goal of education and dissemination of knowledge globally. We’d love to meet you!

**Salary**

$114,000 - $142,000 (annual)

**Job Location**

Washington, DC
