+++
title = "Data Services Librarian (2 positions)"
employer = "North Carolina State University"
employerurl = "https://www.ncsu.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://www.lib.ncsu.edu/jobs/ehra/data-science-librarian-2-positions"
postdate = "2024-09-17"
archivedate = "2025-04-10"
draft = "false"
+++

**Data Services Librarian (2 positions)**
 
The Data Science Librarian provides expert consultative support for students, faculty, and researchers in data science and visualization. The position serves as a member of the DVS Consulting Program Team, including supervising graduate student Data Science Research Consultants. They contribute to supporting the specialized spaces overseen by DVS to ensure access to needed hardware and software. They design, develop, and deliver instruction on data science topics, both as part of an open workshop series offered to the university community and through course-integrated instruction in collaboration with other faculty. They conduct outreach to and engage with faculty, campus groups, and external partners to support the university's data and visualization needs. The position collaborates with colleagues and other university faculty on data-related initiatives and projects, and they contribute to departmental projects and initiatives. The position participates in library planning and serves on library-wide committees, task forces, and teams. Librarians are expected to be active professionally and to contribute to developments in the field. The position reports to the Associate Head, Data & Visualization Services.

The [Data & Visualization Services (DVS)](https://www.lib.ncsu.edu/staff/department/data-visualization-services) department (7 librarians, 1 support staff, plus graduate student assistants) helps students and other researchers develop critical data science and visualization skills through expert consultation, workshops, and classroom instruction. The department provides support for a wide range of data lifecycle activities including data collection, discovery, access, evaluation, cleaning, preprocessing, transformation, modeling, analysis, geospatial techniques, and visualization. The department is the service owner for the [Dataspace](https://www.lib.ncsu.edu/spaces/dataspace) in the Hunt Library and the [Data Experience Lab](https://www.lib.ncsu.edu/spaces/dxl) in the Hill Library, community-oriented spaces offering specialized computing, expert assistance, and programs and services supporting data science and visualization. DVS collaborates with others in the Libraries and with NC State’s [Data Science Academy (DSA)](https://datascienceacademy.ncsu.edu/), a university-wide effort to meet the university’s growing needs for data science research, education, and expertise. The DSA is located in the Hill Library and works with library staff on data consultation, instruction, and programs to ensure that at NC State, “data science is for everyone.”      

This position is based in North Carolina. This position is eligible for flexible hours with a hybrid work environment. This position will require frequent onsite work.

**Minimum Experience/Education:**

- ALA-accredited MLS, MIS, or other relevant, advanced degree

**Required Qualifications:**

Applicants are encouraged to think broadly about and communicate how their skills and experiences transfer to the qualifications below, including in ways that may not be obvious, such as how non-library-specific skills and experiences speak to the position responsibilities. We strongly encourage and welcome applicants with a variety of backgrounds, interests, and experiences to apply for this position, including those new to the profession.

- Proficiency with Python, R, and/or other programming languages for data transformation, analysis, and visualization
- Demonstrated ability to learn and apply new technical skills and tools; evidence of ongoing, self-directed learning
- Knowledge of the provision of data services in academic environments
- Ability to foster an environment of belonging and well-being
- Ability to communicate clearly and knowledgeably through a variety of mediums; ability to represent the Libraries to university and external audiences
- Evidence of ability for ongoing professional development and contribution to the library profession
- Demonstrated ability to collaborate effectively and work in a team environment

**Preferred Qualifications:**

It is not required that candidates meet any of the preferred qualifications to be considered for this position. The following skills represent some of the areas in which this position could potentially grow and focus, based on the incumbent's background and interests.

- Experience providing consultation and reference services for data in an academic setting
- Experience developing and delivering instruction, workshops, or training
- Demonstrated knowledge of data science skills, such as those related to AI, machine learning, advanced data analysis, statistical analysis, or knowledge of computation environments and computer management for successful data processing.


**Salary**

 $77,000 minimum

**Job Location**

Raleigh, NC
