+++
title = "MCTFR Research Data Manager"
employer = "University of Minnesota"
employerurl = "https://www.umn.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://z.umn.edu/MCTFRDataManager"
postdate = "2024-07-09"
archivedate = "2024-08-21"
draft = "false"
+++

**MCTFR Research Data Manager**

The Minnesota Center for Twin and Family Research (MCTFR) is seeking to hire a Research Data Manager (RDM) to support and manage data archival activities, as well as other information systems tasks that facilitate the organization, definition, entry, storage, and retrieval of the MCTFR's structured and unstructured data sources. RDM responsibilities will focus on three general information technology domains (User Support, Data Engineering, and Quality Assurance). The RDM will report to the MCTFR's Scientific Director, and work closely with Principal Investigators, Principal Data Manager, and other data management staff. This position will support the critical task of inventory, accounting, and organization of all existing MCTFR data. A successful candidate will have strong technical aptitude and willingness to learn new IT skills in the absence of software or database development experience.  This position is funded for one year through the UMN Research Infrastructure Investment grant as a 100%-time, 12-month Civil Service position. Depending on available funding and performance, renewal may be possible. Hybrid work is an option. 
 

**Job Responsibilities:**

Data Management (60%):The RDM will document data, metadata and their sources, and ingest and organize into an Oracle database; create data dictionaries that explicitly define data specifications; and create, maintain, and improve documentation that supports MCTFR information systems.

Data Engineering (20%): The RDM will use their technical competencies to build, maintain, and improve extract-transform-load data streams and contribute code and documentation to the MCTFR's software repositories. The RDM will develop export routines to ensure that data dictionaries and datasets match specified requirements of the MCTFR's external data archiving organizations, and they will be responsible for submitting those materials and resolving any problems that prevent archive ingestion.

Quality Assurance (20%):  The RDM will develop and implement technical and non-technical processes to monitor and respond to data quality issues and concerns within MCTFR data sources. This includes building reports which highlight potential problems, participant payment oversight and monitoring, and resolving any errors in digital and paper data sources.

Applicants with experience, training, or skills in library science, technical writing and documentation, animal or human-subjects research, data engineering, or information management, or who also possess a strong desire to learn new technologies and skills, are especially encouraged to apply.

**Qualifications**

**Required Qualifications:**

- BA/BS degree OR a combination of related education and work experience to equal at least four years.
- Familiarity with data management and information security principles, especially as they relate to personally identifying information and human-subjects research data.
- Experience using spreadsheet software.
- Ability to work effectively within a team environment, effectively communicate with team members, and problem solve to creatively find new solutions to new problems as they arise.
 
**Preferred Qualifications:**

- Natural problem solver who is driven to provide high quality service with a keen eye towards details.
- Ability to manage priorities, efficiently execute tasks, and ask for help when it is needed.
- Education/experience in psychological, information, library, biological, and/or other applied science fields. Technical writing and information documentation experience will be also considered if candidate has no IT or science background.
- Familiarity with structured data and how data are defined/typed (strings, integers, Booleans; nominal, ordinal, continuous).
- Experience with change management, version control, and associated tools.
- Experience building extract-transform-load data streams.
- Experience writing software for data processing OR experience using databases.
 
**About the Department**

**About the MCTFR/ABCD**

The Minnesota Center for Twin and Family Research seeks to identify environmental and genetic influences on psychological traits. Focusing on adolescent children and their parents, the MCTFR includes studies of twins, adoptees, and biologically related adolescent siblings. MCTFR participants are involved in a variety of projects including: assessment of psychopathology, psychophysiology and collection of DNA samples in collaboration with the National Institute of Health's Genetics Consortium. 

**About the Department of Psychology**

The Department of Psychology is one of the largest departments within the College of Liberal Arts, and is a highly ranked department nationally. Currently, the department has 50 core faculty, 70+ staff, 130 graduate students, and it supports the largest number of undergraduate majors of any academic program on the UMN Twin Cities campus. Additionally, the department has $50 million or more in active research funding at any given time (the majority from NIH), spread across 70 or more projects. In its 100 plus year history, the Department of Psychology has been marked by distinction and excellence. For additional information, please go to our website: [http://www.psych.umn.edu/](http://www.psych.umn.edu/).

**About the College of Liberal Arts**

Home to the arts, social sciences and humanities disciplines and programs, the College of Liberal Arts is the largest college in the University of Minnesota and comprises 31 academic departments, and over 20 interdisciplinary research centers and administrative/support units. CLA has over 1,300 faculty and staff spanning research, teaching, advising, outreach, and administrative functions. CLA units reside in over twenty buildings on the East Bank and West Bank of the Twin Cities campus. CLA enrolls nearly 13,000 undergraduate students, over 40% of the undergraduate enrollment on the Twin Cities campus, 1,400 graduate students, and has an annual all-funds budget of $290 million.

CLA is a destination for curious, compassionate individuals who are committed to making our increasingly interdependent and diverse global community work for everyone. That [foundational commitment begins in our CLA Constitution](https://cla.umn.edu/about/our-mission-values). CLA is committed to increasing enrollment of underrepresented and under-resourced students, diversifying our faculty across all disciplines, recruiting, and retaining a diverse staff, and promoting the expression and exploration of diverse perspectives and viewpoints-so that we all gain the background knowledge and analytical skills we need to understand and respect differences.

[Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in CLA](https://cla.umn.edu/about/diversity-equity-and-inclusion-cla)

[Working in CLA](https://cla.umn.edu/about/working-cla)

**Benefits**

**Working at the University**

At the University of Minnesota, you'll find a flexible work environment and supportive colleagues who are interested in lifelong learning.  We prioritize work-life balance, allowing you to invest in the future of your career and in your life outside of work.

The University also offers a comprehensive benefits package that includes:

- Competitive wages, paid holidays, and generous time off
- Continuous learning opportunities through professional training and degree-seeking programs supported by the [Regents Tuition Benefit Program](https://z.umn.edu/RTBP)
- Low-cost medical, dental, and pharmacy plans
- Healthcare and dependent care flexible spending accounts
- University HSA contributions
- Disability and employer-paid life insurance
- Employee wellbeing program
- Excellent retirement plans with employer contribution
- Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) [opportunity](https://studentaid.gov/manage-loans/forgiveness-cancellation/public-service)
- Financial counseling services 
- Employee Assistance Program with eight sessions of counseling at no cost
[Employee Transit Pass](http://z.umn.edu/etp) with free or reduced rates in the Twin Cities metro area

Please visit the [Office of Human Resources website](https://z.umn.edu/BenefitsSummaries) for more information regarding benefits.

**Diversity**

The University recognizes and values the importance of diversity and inclusion in enriching the employment experience of its employees and in supporting the academic mission.  The University is committed to attracting and retaining employees with varying identities and backgrounds.

The University of Minnesota provides equal access to and opportunity in its programs, facilities, and employment without regard to race, color, creed, religion, national origin, gender, age, marital status, disability, public assistance status, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression.  To learn more about diversity at the U:  [http://diversity.umn.edu](http://diversity.umn.edu)

**About the U of M**

**The University of Minnesota, Twin Cities (UMTC)**

The University of Minnesota, Twin Cities (UMTC), is among the largest public research universities in the country, offering undergraduate, graduate, and professional students a multitude of opportunities for study and research. Located at the heart of one of the nation's most vibrant, diverse metropolitan communities, students on the campuses in Minneapolis and St. Paul benefit from extensive partnerships with world-renowned health centers, international corporations, government agencies, and arts, nonprofit, and public service organizations.

At the University of Minnesota, we are proud to be recognized by the Star Tribune as a Top Workplace for 2021, as well as by Forbes as Best Employers for Women and one of America's Best Employers (2015, 2018, 2019, 2023), Best Employer for Diversity (2019, 2020), Best Employer for New Grads (2018, 2019), and Best Employer by State (2019, 2022).

**Job Location**

Twin Cities, MN
