+++
title = "GIS Librarian"
employer = "Brandeis University"
employerurl = "https://www.brandeis.edu/"
moreinfourl = "GIS Librarian at Brandeis University"
postdate = "2024-07-14"
archivedate = "2024-08-21"
draft = "false"
+++

**GIS Librarian**

As part of a collaborative team of research and instruction librarians and data specialists, the Librarian provides Geographic Information System (GIS) services for teaching, learning, and research. The GIS librarian contributes to the library’s program of course-integrated research instruction; leads workshops; and provides general research help services to students, faculty, staff and the community. The librarian in this position also serves as a liaison to several departments and programs.

At Brandeis University, our mission and history are rooted in the pursuit of social justice, thus we aim to include this value in all that we do. We are seeking candidates with a variety of social identities, including those who have been underrepresented in higher education, who possess skills that spark innovation and who are committed to building, engaging with, and sustaining a pluralistic, unified, and just campus community.

**Job Duties:**

Provides GIS support to members of the campus community and serves as a liaison to several academic departments and programs: 50%

- develops course-integrated GIS and research instruction
- provides in-depth research consultations
- communicates regularly with faculty, staff, and students to promote the library’s GIS services and resources and to support teaching, learning, and research
- evaluates and facilitates access to relevant scholarly resources, including through the development of guides and instructional materials
 

In collaboration with colleagues, actively contributes to: 30%

- general research help services to students, faculty, staff, and researchers.
- instruction for workshops and first-year programs
- special projects and outreach activities, including orientation.
 

Participates in and contributes to committees and work groups of the Library and the University. 10%

Furthers knowledge in GIS and in liaison areas through: 10%

- participation in professional library or subject-related organizations and committees.
- attending, participating in, or contributing to conferences, webinars, and other types of professional development training.
- maintaining knowledge of best practices, developments, and trends in GIS and liaison subject areas.

Occasional evening and weekend work may be required.

This GIS Librarian is primarily an on-site position, with the option to work from home one day per week.

This is a union position. Employees working in this position are covered by the collective bargaining agreement between the University and Service Employees International Union (SEIU) Local 888.  Provisions related to wages, benefits and other terms of employment are contained in the agreement.

**Commitment to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion**

Diversity, equity and inclusion are important values at Brandeis today and always have been for they are rooted in our founding as an institution. These values serve as a reminder for self-reflection, and a continuous call to grow for us as Brandeisans.  Founded as a model institution for ethnic and religious pluralism, Brandeis University welcomes students, faculty, and staff of all nationalities, religions, and orientations.  Moreover, social justice is central to the mission of Brandeis, which endeavors to foster a just and inclusive campus culture that embraces the evolving diversity of our larger society.  Read more online about our Mission and Diversity Statements at Brandeis Mission and Diversity Statements.

If you are interested in a role and have relevant experience but your work history does not align perfectly with every qualification in the job description, we nevertheless encourage you to apply.

**Qualifications**

Master’s degree or equivalent education & experience required plus 1-3 years of total related work experience.

Experience in an academic setting that demonstrates engagement with departmental constituencies and innovative collaboration on teaching and research activities. Understanding of research and teaching needs of faculty and students.

Demonstrated experience using GIS and mapping software such as ArcGIS and QGIS; experience with applications of these tools in research and teaching

Demonstrated experience working with and a working knowledge of how geospatial data are created, processed, organized, and used.

**Full/Part Time**

Full Time

**Education**

MLS/Masters

**Salary Range**

$76,700.00 - $83,300.00  / year

**Job Location**

Waltham, MA
