+++
title = "Data Curation Supervisor"
employer = "University of Michigan"
employerurl = "https://www.umich.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.umich.edu/job_detail/255932/data-curation-supervisor"
postdate = "2024-11-05"
archivedate = "2024-11-27"
draft = "false"
+++

**Data Curation Supervisor**

The Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research ([ICPSR](http://www.icpsr.umich.edu/)) is the world's largest archive of social science data. We have a [diverse staff](https://www.icpsr.umich.edu/web/pages/about/dei.html) with varying skills and experiences, and a collegial atmosphere that fosters communication and networking.

Candidates for this position must be legally authorized to work in the United States. Visa sponsorship is not available for this position.

ICPSR is now accepting applications for a Data Curation Supervisor. The Data Curation Supervisor is responsible for the daily data curation activities of a team of 6-8 Data Curators. You will report to Rujuta Umarji, Director of Data Curation. Specific responsibilities include:

**Data Curation Supervision**

- Provide administrative and functional supervision of team members, including developing technical skills, setting personal goals, and evaluating performance
- Train and integrate new team members and support the continued development of existing team members
- Assist in recruiting new staff
- Assign work, coordinate workflow, track task progress, and ensure that collections meet project deadlines
- Review and oversee disclosure risk assessments and ensure staff are trained in understanding appropriate access, use, and security of confidential data

**Curation Unit Administration**

- Assist Curation Leadership in developing a high-functioning team
- Participate in planning, prioritizing, and setting team goals based on project requirements and within unit standards
- Work cooperatively with other ICPSR units to provide the best tools for curators and the best services for data users
- Lead Curation Unit subcommittees and working groups
- Provide support to projects, including meeting with project staff quarterly, estimating calendar and effort time for curation work, and consultation

**Data Management**

- Evaluate complex data collections and plan appropriate curation procedures
- Help develop tools, procedures, and workflow improvement to increase the quality and efficiency of data curation
- Oversee the creation of new resources in response to project changes over time.
- Work with Curation Unit team members to refine the curation process and workflow

**Required Qualifications**

We'd like to hear from you if you have:

- Bachelor's Degree in social science or related discipline
- 5+ years of experience managing social science data
- Graduate-level courses in social science research methods or equivalent work experience conducting social science research or social science research archival operations
- Experience with social science research concepts, social science data management, social science analysis methods, and social science statistical software
- 1+ years of experience in supervising or training of regular or temporary staff

**Desired Qualifications**

- We are especially interested if you also have:
- Master's degree in social science or related discipline
- Understanding and awareness of project management principles
- Experience with JIRA software or related project management tool

**Work Locations**

Monday-Friday, days. Staff with supervisory responsibilities are generally expected to have a hybrid work schedule. However, any staff member can request a remote work schedule, and ICPSR offers flexibility and work-life balance.


**Modes of Work**

Positions that are eligible for hybrid or mobile/remote work mode are at the discretion of the hiring department. Work agreements are reviewed annually at a minimum and are subject to change at any time, and for any reason, throughout the course of employment. Learn more about the [work modes](https://hr.umich.edu/working-u-m/my-employment/ways-we-work-resource-center/ways-we-work-implementation-group/modes-work).

**Additional Information**

The Institute for Social Research (ISR) at the University of Michigan seeks to recruit and retain a diverse workforce as a reflection of our commitment to serve the diverse people of Michigan, to maintain the excellence of the university, and to ground our research in varied disciplines, perspectives, and ways of knowing and learning.

**Benefits**

In addition to a career filled with purpose and opportunity, The University of Michigan offers a comprehensive benefits package to help you stay well, protect yourself and your family and plan for a secure future. Benefits include:

- Generous time off;
- A retirement plan that provides two-for-one matching contributions with immediate vesting;
- Many choices for comprehensive health insurance;
- Life insurance;
- Long-term disability coverage;
- Flexible spending accounts for healthcare and dependent care expenses.

**Salary**

$80,000.00 - $85,000.00

**Job Location**

Ann Arbor, MI
