+++
title = "Digital Preservation Librarian"
employer = "Penn State University"
employerurl = "https://www.psu.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://psu.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/PSU_Staff/job/Penn-State-University-Park/Digital-Preservation-Librarian_REQ_0000057613-1"
postdate = "2024-07-24"
archivedate = "2024-08-22"
draft = "false"
+++

**Digital Preservation Librarian**

This tenure-line Digital Preservation Librarian will lead the development of the cohesive digital preservation program and the ongoing implementation of strategies and policies for the long-term preservation of and access to digital collections at the Penn State University Libraries, for both digitized and born-digital materials.  The position collaborates with librarians and staff across the University Libraries on digital initiatives as well as with University Information Technology Services and other library, campus, and university units.  The position reports to the Head of the Preservation, Conservation and Digitization Department in the Distinctive Collections and Digital Strategies division of the Libraries.

The successful candidate will:

- Lead a cohesive digital preservation program including development of an effective and achievable strategy to ensure long-term viability of university digital assets regardless of format.
- Design, implement, and manage policies and workflows, audits, and quality control processes for the long-term protection of and access to digital materials of all types, both created and acquired by the University Libraries. 
- Assist in the ongoing development of requirements and specifications for digital preservation, including formats and metadata.
- Advise both library faculty and staff and external content creators on digital content lifecycle issues and strategies for digital content preservation.
- Participate in the development of services to support curation and preservation of research data.
- Serve as liaison to the Penn State community for digital preservation projects and initiatives related to digital collections and data. 
- Prepare proposals for external funding of digital preservation projects. Prepare specifications for vended services that support the digital preservation program.
- Stay current on developing technologies, standards, and practices in preservation of digital collections and data curation.
- Represent the university in matters concerning digital preservation at the local, national, and international level. Moreover, the successful candidate is expected to be an active participant in consortial efforts such as Academic Preservation Trust (APTrust), the Software Preservation Network, and the Big Ten Academic Alliance (BTAA) Digital Preservation stakeholders’ group.
- Supervise digital preservation staff.
- Engage in research, scholarly publication, and professional service activities in areas related to core responsibilities.

**Qualifications**

**Required:**

- Advanced degree in a relevant subject area (e.g., ALA-accredited master’s degree in library or information science or a master’s or doctoral degree in another relevant field combined with appropriate experience in an academic setting).
- Demonstrated knowledge of digital preservation issues, strategies, standards, and best practices.
- Experience or familiarity with all of the following:
  - National and international collaborative digital preservation efforts;
  - Preservation metadata standards;
  - Digital objects in various formats; and
  - Multiple computer platforms including Linux, Windows, and/or macOS.
- Commitment to fostering an equitable and inclusive workplace.

**Preferred:**

- Direct experience in use of digital preservation systems in an enterprise-scale environment.
- Success in acquiring and developing grant-funded projects.
- Experience or interest in one or more of the following:
  - Markup languages such as HTML and XML;
  - Scripting languages such as PowerShell, Python, Bash, etc.;
  - Digital preservation tools such as BitCurator, Archivematica, BagIT, JHOVE; and/or
  - Project management techniques.

**Additional Information:**

The Penn State University Libraries is a strategic asset to Penn State University, advancing intellectual discovery, information literacy, and lifelong learning, all in support of the University’s strategic goals in teaching, research, service, and outreach. More information about working at the Penn State University Libraries including the organization at a glance, culture and community, mentoring and professional development, salary and benefits as well as the evaluation, promotion, and tenure process can be found at: [https://libraries.psu.edu/about/jobs](https://libraries.psu.edu/about/jobs). Successful candidates will benefit from a strong mentoring program developed by the University Libraries to support new faculty in tenure-track appointments in fulfilling expectations in the areas of librarianship, research, and service.

The University Libraries values diversity of thought, perspective, experience and people, and is actively committed to a culture of inclusion and respect. We encourage candidates who thrive in a welcoming multicultural environment to apply. More information on Penn State’s commitment to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusive Excellence can be found by visiting [http://equity.psu.edu/diversity-statement](http://equity.psu.edu/diversity-statement). Information about the University Libraries’ Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility efforts can be found by visiting [https://libraries.psu.edu/about/diversity](https://libraries.psu.edu/about/diversity).

**Compensation:**

Individual compensation packages are based on various factors unique to each candidate, including a candidate’squalifications, education, experience, and rank. In addition to a competitive salary, full-time employees also receive acomprehensive benefits program, generous paid time off, and tuition discount for employees and eligible family members.

Expected starting salary: $75,000-$80,000/year, plus research and professional development funds. Penn StateUniversity’s Total Compensation Calculator provides an estimated summary of the value of compensation and benefits.

**Job Location**

University Park, PA
