+++
title = "Liaison Librarian for Nursing and Health Sciences"
employer = "Boston College"
employerurl = "https://www.bc.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://bc.csod.com/ux/ats/careersite/2/home/requisition/9311?c=bc&sq=liaison%20librarian%20for%20nursing%20and%20health%20sciences"
postdate = "2024-11-12"
archivedate = "2024-12-10"
draft = "false"
+++

**Liaison Librarian for Nursing and Health Sciences**

**Job Description**

Boston College Libraries seeks a Liaison Librarian for Nursing and Health Sciences. Promising applicants will demonstrate their commitment to supporting students at all levels of higher education, including undergraduate and graduate students in Boston College's Connell School for Nursing and associate degree candidates in Messina College's Health Sciences program. The ability to support clinical simulation exercises and evidence-based practice will be highly valued in this position.

The Connell School for Nursing at Boston College works toward "the improvement of health and health care for a diverse and global society," and to this end its faculty "prepare compassionate, professionally competent nurses whose practice and scholarship are scientifically based and grounded in humanizing the experience of health and illness." Additionally, Boston College's wider Health Sciences curricula are distinguished by their dedication to addressing contemporary global challenges and emerging trends in patient health and medical research, an approach that is informed by the university's social justice values.

The Liaison Librarian for Nursing and Health Sciences will be a key partner in supporting the Connell School's mission and coursework, including its new undergraduate Global Public Health program. This position's responsibilities also extend to the Health Sciences program in the university's newly established Messina College, serving first-generation, high financial need students. The successful candidate will demonstrate evidence of a working style that combines initiative, collaboration, and leadership, and the ability to work effectively with diverse groups and learning styles. Boston College Libraries is committed to recruiting and developing a diverse workforce to meet the needs of an increasingly diverse campus.

Reporting to the Head of Collections, Liaison Librarians work within a strategic cohort organization that fosters communication and collaboration with the Libraries' Digital Scholarship department and Instructional and Research Services teams. Instructional outreach and support, collection development, and digital scholarship and data consultations are among the important services that liaisons provide. The Liaison Librarian for Nursing and Health Sciences will consult with faculty on an ongoing basis formally and informally regarding their evolving research and teaching requirements. They will also participate in faculty meetings, colloquia, orientations, and task forces as needed. This position is in-person.

**Boston College Introduction**

Founded in 1863, Boston College is a Jesuit, Catholic university located six miles from downtown Boston with an enrollment of 9,484 full-time undergraduates and 5,250 graduate and professional students. Ranked 35 among national universities, Boston College has 888 full-time and 1,281 FTE faculty, 2,711 non-faculty employees, an operating budget of $1.4 billion, and an endowment in excess of $3.5 billion.														

**Requirements**

- A master's degree in library or information science from an ALA-accredited program or an advanced degree in a relevant subject discipline is required.
- Experience in selecting and managing scholarly materials, including research datasets, for Nursing, Health Sciences, or related disciplines is highly preferred for this position.
- The Liaison Librarian must demonstrate awareness of scholarly publishing trends and understanding of budgetary considerations for various material types.
- Demonstrated experience in using technology to advance research and teaching is preferred, as well as an understanding of the evolving digital scholarship landscape in higher education.

**Closing Statement**

Boston College offers a broad and competitive range of benefits depending on your job classification eligibility:

- Tuition remission for Employees
- Tuition remission for Spouses and Children who meet eligibility requirements
- Generous Medical, Dental, and Vision Insurance
- Low-Cost Life Insurance
- Eligibility for both University-Funded 401k and Employer-Sponsored 403b Retirement Plans
- Paid Holidays Annually
- Generous Sick and Vacation Pay
- Additional benefits can be found on [https://www.bc.edu/employeehandbook](https://www.bc.edu/employeehandbook)

**Salary**

Senior Librarian $74,500-$92,500 (5+ years experience)

Non Senior $67,120-$83,900 (2+ years experience)

**Job Location**

Chestnut Hill, MA
