+++
title = "Head, Data Science Training & Consultation"
employer = "Stanford University"
employerurl = "https://www.stanford.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careersearch.stanford.edu/jobs/head-data-science-training-consultation-24026"
postdate = "2024-02-12"
archivedate = "2024-03-22"
draft = "false"
+++

**Head, Data Science Training & Consultation**

Stanford Libraries is seeking a full-time Head of Data Science Training & Consultation to join the Research Data Services Department.  The Libraries values are rooted in a commitment of mutual respect, the idea that every member of the staff has something to contribute, and that learning is constant.  We seek a team member who is ready to share their skills and perspectives.

**About Stanford Libraries:**

Stanford Libraries is a network of over 15 libraries with over 400 employees. We are committed to fueling teaching, learning and research across Stanford by acquiring, stewarding, and making available a robust collection, currently in excess of 12 million items. Everyone in the organization plays a vital role in fulfilling that objective. Our dedication to discoverability and information management also has us engaged in dynamic global partnerships. We are constantly building and strengthening our organization, and we recognize striving for excellence is a marathon and not a sprint. We are constantly trying to strike the right pace and admit there are times when we find ourselves at a fast jog. While we hope to always find candidates who fit within our organization, what we truly seek is someone who will add to our culture, our profession as well as the greater academic arena. We are invested in the success of our teams and the individuals who represent Stanford Libraries. , and across NYU’s global network to implement and enhance programs & services.

**About the Position:**

**Overview**

Stanford Libraries invites applications for the position of Head, Data Science Training & Consultation, supporting applied data science methods across al disciplines on campus. This position is part of Research Data Services, a group within Stanford Libraries which supports computational and data-centric methods and practices to further research at al levels at Stanford.

**Job Purpose**

This role is responsible for broad support for quantitative, computational, and algorithmic analysis of research data, including aspects of data management, analysis methods, workflow reproducibility, and ethical considerations. The Head of Data Science Training &Consultation continues a long tradition of university-wide service for data-driven research scholarship, while growing Research Data Services' capacity as a hub for digital and computational research support. In collaboration with other members of Stanford Libraries, the successful candidate will support this mission through campus-wide outreach efforts as well as the development of Library services that address the growing need for support of data science methods.

The successful candidate will work strategically with Library colleagues including software developers, data curators, and subject specialists to provide Stanford researchers access to a wide range of data science support, including in-person &hybrid training courses and individual consultations. They will bring a passion for customer service rooted in higher-ed in addition to extensive instructional skills in data science training.

This position manages a team of graduate student assistants to assist with these goals, including recruitment, hiring, professional development, and oversight. In addition, they serve as the main steward of the Velma Denning Room in Green Library, a physical site of encounter, knowledge transmission, and community for those interested in digital research methods. In this spirit, the role collaborates domain-specific digital skills training with subject librarians across the campus, including the nearby Social Science Resource Group.

**Core Duties+:**

- Lead the development of resources, workshops, tutorials, and consultations to disseminate information about the uses of quantitative, computational, and algorithmic methods in research – in other words, data science methods. Organize RDS’ workshop series and coordinate drop-in consulting train scholars at all levels of technical ability. Identify emerging tools and methods that will advance these forms of research projects and provide the technical assistance necessary to enhance the Library’s contributions to faculty and student research projects.
- Actively encourage and support the introduction of new disciplinary tools for data management and analysis to researchers and students, assist them with such tools, disseminate knowledge of these tools throughout the university, and create & support an infrastructure that allows the use of these tools in research.
- Assume leadership within Research Data Services in the support of text and data mining training and consultation. Provide assistance in the direct integration of TDM and other quantitative methods into research projects.
- Convene and coordinate Stanford’s campus-wide Carpentries program, including administrative responsibilities, instructor recruitment, and integration of Carpentries course offerings into domain-specific contexts.
- Develop and implement strategies for collaboration, program design, and support for digital research projects. Conduct environmental scans in conjunction with subject librarians to identify current and emerging areas and methods of research, as well as scholarly projects for which digital tools and methods are appropriate.
- Recruit, manage, and mentor graduate student consultants with RDS.
- Facilitate a culture of support and inclusion around data science methods.

+Other duties may also be assigned

**MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS**

**Education and Experience:**

Master’s degree or equivalent plus four years of relevant experience, or a combination of education and relevant experience.

**Minimum Knowledge, Skills and Abilities:**

- Expertise in data science languages and environments such as R and Python.
- Familiarity with the command line and basic shell scripting.
- Demonstrated ability to develop instructional material, set pedagogic goals, and measure learning outcomes.
- Knowledge of the current and emerging state-of-the-art in common text & data mining techniques, including topic modeling, word embedding models, LLMs, and similar.
- Ability to plan, design, develop, deliver, and evaluate in-person and online educational experiences.
- Excellent teaching, communication, and interpersonal skills.
- Eagerness to learn about cutting-edge technologies and methods to assist researchers working at the forefront of their fields.
- Ability to interact effectively and professionally with members of the academic community, including librarians, students, faculty, postdocs, and other staff.
- Excellent time management and project management skills. Demonstrated ability to manage a complex workload, prioritize tasks and use good judgment in providing services.
- Excellent customer service skills, strong interpersonal skills and the ability to build strong working relationships with a diverse audience of faculty and students. 

**Other Relevant Knowledge, Skills and Experience:**

- Experience with traditional quantitative and qualitative methods using software packages such as Stata, SPSS, NVivo, AtlasTi.
- Experience working with spatial data, methods and software packages, such as rasterio, geopandas, GDAL, etc.

**Physical Requirements+:**

- Constantly perform desk-based computer tasks.
- Frequently sitting, grasp lightly/fine manipulation.
- Occasionally stand/walk, lift/carry/push/pull objects that weigh 11-20 pounds.
- Rarely writing by hand, use a telephone.

+Consistent with its obligations under the law, the University will provide reasonable accommodation to any employee with a disability who requires accommodation to perform the essential functions of his or her job.

**Working Conditions:**

- Extended hours and weekends.
- Occasional overnight travel. 

**Work Standards:**

- Interpersonal Skills: Demonstrates the ability to work well with Stanford colleagues and clients and with external organizations.
- Promote Culture of Safety: Demonstrates commitment to personal responsibility and value for safety; communicates safety concerns; uses and promotes safe behaviors based on training and lessons learned.
- Subject to and expected to comply with all applicable University policies and procedures, including but not limited to the personnel policies and other policies found in the University's Administrative Guide, [http://adminguide.stanford.edu](http://adminguide.stanford.edu).

Stanford is an equal employment opportunity and affirmative action employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law. Stanford welcomes applications from all who would bring additional dimensions to the University’s research, teaching and clinical missions.

We believe Stanford’s future success will be shaped by the diverse perspectives, unique experiences, and inclusive culture of its community.

The expected pay range for this position is $75,000.00 to $109,000.00 per annum/hour. Stanford University provides pay ranges representing its good faith estimate of what the university reasonably expects to pay for a position. The pay offered to a selected candidate will be determined based on factors such as (but not limited to) the scope and responsibilities of the position, the qualifications of the selected candidate, departmental budget availability, internal equity, geographic location, and external market pay for comparable jobs.

**Why Stanford is for You:**

Imagine a world without search engines or social platforms. Consider lives saved through first-ever organ transplants and research to cure illnesses. Stanford University has revolutionized the way we live and enrich the world. Supporting this mission is our diverse and dedicated 17,000 staff. We seek talent driven to impact the future of our legacy. Our culture and unique perks empower you with:

- Freedom to grow. We offer career development programs, tuition reimbursement, and course auditing. Join a TedTalk, watch a film screening, or listen to a renowned author or global leader speak.
- A caring culture. We provide superb retirement plans, generous time-off, and family care resources.
- A healthier you. Choose from hundreds of health or fitness classes at our world-class exercise facilities. We provide excellent health care benefits.
- Discovery and fun. Stroll through historic sculptures, trails, and museums.
- Enviable resources. Enjoy free commuter programs, ridesharing incentives, discounts and more.

**Job Location**

Stanford, CA
