+++
title = "Research Data Librarian"
employer = "University of Kansas"
employerurl = "https://ku.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://employment.ku.edu/jobs/faculty/research-data-librarian/29494br"
postdate = "2024-12-12"
archivedate = "2025-01-14"
draft = "false"
+++

**Research Data Librarian**

KU Libraries invite applications for the tenure-track faculty position of Research Data Librarian. The position will contribute to advancing KU Libraries’ research data services. The libraries are seeking growth in areas of research data deposit and curation while maintaining a broad portfolio of expertise in data management literacy and computing tools and skills. The Research Data Librarian will join a team with a culture of experimentation, peer learning, and collaboration. With a history of advocacy and leadership in open access and open scholarship, KU Libraries are well positioned to address evolving public access requirements for research data. Research & Discovery is a priority in the University of Kansas’ Jayhawks Rising strategic plan and a core goal in KU Libraries’ 2024-2028 strategic plan.

In this position, the librarian will work with researchers at all levels to address their data-related needs throughout the research data lifecycle, primarily through teaching and consulting. The librarian will expand capacity in data management planning and implementation and will work with colleagues to develop capacity in data visualization, analysis, and curation. In this position, the librarian will have opportunities to collaborate on data, data management, and computing literacies for undergraduate and graduate students. The librarian also works with colleagues to develop and maintain the libraries’ awareness of federal, funder, and regulatory requirements that affect KU’s researchers. KU Research and KU Information Technology are key partners in providing data services to KU’s researchers. Campus research units, such as the Institute for Policy & Social Research or the Biodiversity Institute, also present potential partnership opportunities.

KU Libraries coordinate KU’s membership in The Carpentries and facilitate an active cohort of volunteer instructors. KU’s Carpentries program offers workshops on a variety of computing and data topics and supports individuals through Carpentries Instructor Training and certification. In this position, the librarian will contribute to KU Libraries’ Carpentries-related efforts by joining and supporting the instructor cohort and helping at, instructing, and organizing workshops.

The Research Data Librarian will join the Digital Scholarship Team and reports to the Coordinator of Digital Scholarship. The team maintains strong cooperative relationships within KU Libraries and on campus, working with individuals conducting research at many scales. The Digital Scholarship Team is housed within the Digital Initiatives unit of the broader Research & Engagement Division. Digital Initiatives brings together much of the libraries’ computing and data expertise in library systems, institutional repositories, internal assessment, metadata and digitization, digital scholarship, and digital humanities.

We welcome candidates who meet the minimum requirement to apply and will support their professional development to grow in this position.

This is a full-time, 12-month, tenure-track faculty position. Rank considerations are based on professional performance, research, and service experience sufficient to qualify for appointment at the rank of Assistant Librarian or Associate Librarian.

See the Libraries Criteria for Academic Ranks document: [http://policy.ku.edu/libraries/criteria-academic-ranks-library-faculty](http://policy.ku.edu/libraries/criteria-academic-ranks-library-faculty)

Additional information about the Libraries promotion and tenure procedures can be found at the following website: [https://policy.ku.edu/ku-libraries/promotion-and-tenure-procedures-faculty](https://policy.ku.edu/ku-libraries/promotion-and-tenure-procedures-faculty)

Startup funds and annual development funds are provided to tenure-track faculty to support scholarly activities.

**Job Description**

KU’s excellence is a result of the rich tapestry of experiences, perspectives, and backgrounds of our faculty, staff, students, and colleagues from across our nation and the globe. At KU, we invest in continuous learning and growth by creating a climate where people engage in respectful dialogue and debate and support each other’s success. We foster a culture of care where each person is seen, heard and valued. When people feel a true sense of belonging, we believe they are better able to reach their full potential and achieve remarkable things. The successful candidate must be eligible to work in the U.S. by the effective date of the appointment.

**PROFESSIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES (70%)**

- Assists researchers, including student researchers, with data management literacy, planning, and implementation through services such as workshops, library instruction, and consultations, as well as development of asynchronous materials.
- Assists researchers, including student researchers, with learning and practicing computing and data tools and skills through services such as teaching and helping at Software and Data Carpentry workshops and holding consultations on these skills.
- Consults with researchers on constructing Data Management Plans for sponsored projects that are aligned with KU infrastructure, policy, and resources.
   - Contributes to DMPTool administration and localizations such as KU-specific stock language and links.
- In collaboration with colleagues, contributes to library initiatives and services in areas such as data and text analysis, data visualization, data deposit and curation, data access and discovery, and researcher impact.
- Works collaboratively with colleagues from the libraries and other campus units on sustainable service and infrastructure initiatives that enable management of research data over the intended data lifecycle.
- Works collaboratively as a member of project teams and other groups to advance the libraries’ strategic priorities.

**RESEARCH (20%)**

- Contributes to the profession’s collective knowledge by engaging in scholarly research activity.
- Research may involve the publication of articles, books, book reviews, grant-supported inquiry, or editorial work (see [Promotion and Tenure Procedures at KU, Spring 2017](https://lfsa.ku.edu/sites/lfsa/files/files/LFSA_Files/Corrected_PP%26T_6_2017%207.20.pdf)).

**SERVICE (10%)**

- Engages in service to the Libraries, the University, and to professional organizations by participating in committee work, projects, and other contributory achievements

**Required Qualifications**

**Required Qualifications for all Candidates**

- ALA-accredited master’s degree in Library/Information Science or equivalent from a foreign institution by date of appointment OR a PhD in library and information science from an LIS program that also offered an ALA-accredited master’s degree at the time the PhD was awarded.

**Additional Qualifications for Associate Librarian**

- Minimum of four years of successful professional experience at the rank of Assistant Librarian.
- Documented evidence of high level, professional expertise, and have a demonstrated record of accomplishments that advances the goals of the KU Libraries, the University, and the profession.
- Appropriate record of consistent, quality research contributions in areas related to librarianship, or a specialized subject area as it relates to their practice of librarianship or a related area.

**Preferred Qualifications**

- Knowledge of and experience with tools and techniques for one or more aspects of research data, such as management, cleaning, analysis, documentation, storage, sharing, curation.
- Experience with teaching or training.
- Evidence of engagement with The Carpentries or a similar open model for teaching computing and data topics, as demonstrated by experience such as instructing or helping at computing and data workshops or Carpentries certification as an instructor, lesson developer, or trainer.
- Knowledge of practices or guidelines for data curation, security and privacy, storage, and reuse, such as FAIR or CARE principles.
- Evidence of experience working with one or more areas of: information management and description, open publishing, scholarly communication, electronic resources.

**Salary**

Minimum salary $60,000, final determination commensurate with experience

**Job Location**

Lawrence, KS 
