+++
title = "Associate Director of the Empirical Reasoning Center"
employer = "Barnard College, Columbia University"
employerurl = "https://www.barnard.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://barnard.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/Staff/job/Associate-Director-of-the-Empirical-Reasoning-Center_JR4118"
postdate = "2024-11-05"
archivedate = "2024-11-27"
draft = "false"
+++

**Associate Director of the Empirical Reasoning Center**

Reporting to the Senior Associate Director (SAD), the Associate Director position provides leadership and coordination in the implementation of instructional programs and services to support the ERC’s mission of diffusing empirical reasoning across the Barnard curriculum and ensuring that all Barnard students attain a basic level of empirical literacy. The AD conducts workshops and develops training materials on data analysis software and methodologies. The AD hires and supervises the ERC undergraduate fellows, and assists the SAD in providing instructional support. The AD assists faculty and students across the curriculum with data analysis, spatial (GIS) analysis, data visualization, and related empirical projects. The AD also works closely with the Barnard Library and Academic Instruction Services (BLAIS) team and other partners as needed to coordinate services and facilitate collaboration.

**Job Description**

- Serve as the primary liaison between the ERC and the undergraduate student body
- Recruit and train help desk and instructional staff, including undergraduate fellows and graduate assistants.
- Oversee the scheduling and supervision of ERC lab staff and dedicated ERC Fellows
- With the SAD, provide instructional services including: 
- Workshops for Barnard faculty and students on data analysis, with programs such as (but not limited to): Excel/Google sheets; R/STATA; ArcGIS/QGIS, etc. 
- One-on-one or small group consultations with faculty and students on those same topics; or with faculty to more carefully assess and implement appropriate data analysis technologies available that will achieve desired learning outcomes and goals. 
- Individual and group consultations to guide students and faculty through basic research design and data analysis to interpreting and visualizing results.
- Develop instructional and training material for workshops and the ERC's website including online video recordings of training sessions
- Maintain inventory of workshop materials to ensure access and quality
- Create and maintain a library of additional, accessible online training materials 
- Collect and analyze relevant assessment data and present/report on results for strategic planning and scholarly contributions
- Lead/support the ERC initiative to migrate all of Barnard statistics/data analysis courses to open-access and open-source software.
- Performs additional administrative duties and responsibilities as needed to ensure efficient office operations.

**Skills, Qualifications & Requirements:**

**Knowledge, Skills & Abilities:**

- Demonstrated ability to work independently and on a team in a collaborative environment
- Demonstrated ability to work on multiple projects concurrently
- Demonstrated knowledge of and ability to speak effectively with faculty and students about textual, numeric, and spatial data resources, bibliographic and other information resources
- Excellent interpersonal, writing, and oral communication skills.
- Experience managing complex projects. 
- Demonstrated ability to create and maintain a collaborative work environment.
- Demonstrated user focus, creative problem solving ability, and commitment to continuous learning.
- Ability to provide clear direction and set priorities

**Qualifications:**

- Demonstrated commitment to diversity, social justice, and inclusive excellence
- Graduate degree (master’s level or higher) with 1 to 3 years’ work experience in a relevant subject/field area or a bachelor’s degree with 3 to 5 years’ work experience 
- Understanding of the research process as demonstrated by academic or work experience.
- Advanced knowledge of or experience with Excel/Google sheets and one or more of the following: Stata, ArcGIS/QGIS, R, Python, Tableau, PowerBI, Qualtrics.
- Demonstrated knowledge or willingness to become familiar with the concepts, pedagogy, research, and scholarly trends in empirical research.
- An aptitude for or experience in teaching or training and developing instructional content and documentation
- Knowledge of statistical methods, data analysis, and data visualization 

**Physical Requirements:**

- Ability to perform customary office tasks such as sitting, walking, standing, computing, and answering telephone for moderate to prolonged periods of time combined with light to moderate reaching, bending and lifting.

**Salary**

$80 - $85,000 annually

**Job Location**

New York, NY
