+++
title = "Research Data Librarian"
employer = "University of Tennessee"
employerurl = "https://www.utk.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://www.lib.utk.edu/employment/position/research-data-librarian/"
postdate = "2024-07-25"
archivedate = "2024-08-22"
draft = "false"
+++

**Research Data Librarian**

The University of Tennessee, Knoxville (UTK), a Research 1 institution and the flagship institution for the state, is seeking an enthusiastic and highly motivated individual to join the collaborative and innovative Data and Digital Scholarship team at the University Libraries. The city of Knoxville is a hidden gem with a beautiful and walkable downtown, varied nightlife, active neighborhoods, and eclectic shopping and restaurants. UT is located within easy driving distance to Asheville, Nashville, Atlanta, and the Great Smoky Mountains.

The University of Tennessee, Knoxville (UTK) seeks a creative individual to fill the position of Research Data Librarian, at the flagship public research institution for the state. As a member of the department of Data and Digital Scholarship, the Research Data Librarian works with research experts to support scholarship and research success across the UTK community including groups such as the Office of Innovative Technologies (OIT) and the Office of Research, Innovation, and Economic Development (ORIED). They support scholars through research consultations in the areas of open science, open data, data management, data sharing, data preservation; workshops and course-integrated instruction; development of online research guides; outreach; and active participation with their colleagues in Data and Digital Scholarship and throughout the Libraries, specifically Research Impact and Open Access and Digital Initiatives. They collaborate with colleagues on data-related initiatives and projects to develop services within the libraries and broader campus community. They integrate data ethics, justice, accessibility, and equity into the provision of data services. Librarians are expected to be active professionally and to contribute to developments in the field.

Applicants are encouraged to communicate how their work and other experiences satisfy qualifications. This position requires collaboration in developing data services and we are committed to providing opportunities for the successful candidate to develop preferred skills. With interdisciplinary data science degrees from undergraduate to PhD and growing campus data infrastructure, this individual will collaboratively develop library services to support research data needs for scholars at all levels.

**Responsibilities & Duties**

The Research Data Librarian is expected to:

- Support research data management and sharing needs at all levels throughout the UT community through consultations, instruction, and outreach initiatives.
- Collaborate with library colleagues to develop a suite of research services for the UT community. Examples include:
  - Provide workshops and course-integrated instruction in data management tools and techniques to support UTK faculty, students, and research staff to find, describe, preserve, and share data.
  - Assist UTK faculty, students, and research staff with the review of data management plans and development of grant proposals.
  - Analyzes and assesses campus data management needs, current initiatives, and future directions, working with Data and Digital Scholarship.
  - Develops partnerships and works in collaboration with campus offices that provide research data services to support the University’s research mission (ex: Office of Innovative Technologies; Office of Research, Innovation & Economic Development; Office of Sponsored Programs).
  - Contribute to the development of data and related library policies. Advocate for data needs on appropriate committees and working groups.
  - Work in collaboration with Data and Digital Scholarship, Research Impact and Scholarly Communication, and Digital Initiatives to promote Open Science, specifically data sharing and preservation.
  - Lead data related development efforts in the Libraries to increase knowledge and engagement of non-data librarians with scholars’ data needs in the UT community.
- Provide workshops and course-integrated instruction to support research data management and related topics.
- Maintain and continuously develop subject expertise in research data practices, specifically around data management, data sharing, and data preservation through continuing professional development.
- Serve as a subject librarian through participation with subject librarian development initiatives, instruction, outreach, research assistance, and collection development. 
- Serve the library profession through involvement in professional organizations and through cooperative efforts with other information professionals.
- Engage in research/scholarship/creative activity through publication, presentation, and other outlets.

**Required Qualifications**

The successful candidate must exhibit the ability to work cooperatively and effectively with others to achieve common goals and demonstrate enthusiasm to meet dynamically changing needs within a culture of continuous learning.

- ALA-accredited Master’s degree in Library/Information Science or advanced degree in related discipline by time of appointment.
- Familiarity with the research and data lifecycles.
- Evidence of commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility in a professional setting.
- Excellent interpersonal and communication skills in a variety of mediums.
- Ability to learn and apply new technical skills and tools through self-directed learning.
- Demonstrated initiative, flexibility, and ability to work creatively and effectively both independently and collaboratively in a team environment.
- Evidence of ability to engage in research, publication, and service consonant with the University’s and Libraries’ guidelines for faculty promotion and tenure.

**Preferred Qualifications**

- Understanding of grant and award funding agencies’ requirements regarding data management, preservation, and access.
- Demonstrated understanding of the data and research lifecycles and discipline practices for researchers working with data.
- Experience with quantitative software and programming language(s) for data cleaning, remediation, analysis, and visualization.
- Experience working with interdisciplinary groups and research projects.
- Experience in developing and delivering data related workshops to classes and groups. 
- Experience identifying relevant data repositories or archives.
- Experience in academic libraries setting.

**Environment**

The University of Tennessee Libraries serves the flagship campus of Tennessee’s premier public research university. The University of Tennessee holds the Carnegie Foundation Research 1 designation, granted to doctoral universities with very high research activity.  As a land-grant university and as Volunteers, serving our state and nation are key to our mission. UT enrolls approximately 33,805 students at its Knoxville campus. For more information about the people who comprise the UTK community, view resources on our [Data Central website](https://data.utk.edu/). The University culture is guided by adherence to core values that define the Volunteer spirit and include: seeking knowledge; leading with innovation and integrity; advancing diversity and inclusion; engaging locally and globally; and embracing responsible stewardship of resources.

The UT Libraries supports the teaching, research, and service mission of the university and enhances the academic experience of each student at the Knoxville campus—through outstanding print and electronic collections, reference and instructional services, and top-notch facilities and technological resources. The John C. Hodges Library in the heart of campus houses the majority of the UT Libraries’ collections and many unique services. Two branch libraries offer specialized collections and services: the Webster C. Pendergrass Agriculture and Veterinary Medicine Library and the George F. DeVine Music Library.

The UT Libraries is a national leader in digital collections; in support of open access though our digital repository, TRACE; and through a rich history of designing innovative spaces and building key partnerships that enhance the teaching/learning enterprise. The UT Libraries is a member of the Association of Research Libraries, the Association of Southeastern Research Libraries, HathiTrust, the Library Publishing Coalition, LYRASIS, and the Center for Research Libraries. The UT Libraries collaborates actively at the state level with the other University of Tennessee System libraries as well as the libraries in the Tennessee Board of Regents system.

The Knoxville campus of the University of Tennessee is seeking candidates who have the ability to contribute in meaningful ways to the diversity and intercultural goals of the University. The UT Libraries champions diversity in collections and staffing. The University of Tennessee is committed to creating a welcoming environment. More information about how we put our principles of civility and community into action is available at [https://www.lib.utk.edu/belonging/home/](https://www.lib.utk.edu/belonging/home).

Additional information about this position and the UT community is available at [https://www.lib.utk.edu/employment/position/research-data-librarian/](https://www.lib.utk.edu/employment/position/research-data-librarian/ )

**Benefits**

Appointment at the rank of Assistant Professor with a salary of $63,000.  Faculty rank and status; twelve-month, tenure-track appointment.  Library faculty must meet University requirements for promotion and tenure.

Excellent benefits include 24 annual leave days; choice of state retirement plan (TCRS) or the Optional Retirement Program (ORP) (VOYA, TIAA) with nonrefundable contributions paid for the employee by the University; optional group health and life insurance plans. Tuition remission is available for all university employees and partial undergraduate tuition remission is available to dependent children and spouses of UT employees. Start-up funding in the amount of $10,000 allocated over a three-year period; annual support for travel & professional development.

UT’s [Prospective Faculty Viewbook](https://provost.utk.edu/wp-content/uploads/sites/10/2017/12/Prospective-Faculty-Viewbook-1.pdf) has information on academic support, personal support, and living in Knoxville.

**Job Location**

Knoxville, TN
