+++
title = "Digital Initiatives Librarian"
employer = "University of Utah"
employerurl = "https://www.utah.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://utah.peopleadmin.com/postings/168135"
postdate = "2024-07-29"
archivedate = "2024-08-22"
draft = "false"
+++

**Digital Initiatives Librarian**

Do you find the idea of making unique primary source materials accessible to researchers exciting? The Digital Library Services Division at the J. Willard Marriott Library seeks a detail-oriented and collaborative individual to create metadata for digital collections, manage our digital exhibits program, and share their metadata expertise within the library and our digital exhibit partners. This person joins a team dedicated to creating descriptive metadata for the long-standing and innovative Digital Library program at the Marriott Library. The library also has engaging collaboration opportunities with Special Collections, our research data program, digital scholarship center, Digital Matters, and more. As the University embarks upon new strategic directions, this is an exciting time at the University of Utah.

**Work Location:**

Relocation to the Salt Lake City, Utah area is required and will be financially supported by house hunting and moving allowances. This position is currently designed as a hybrid of on-campus and local remote work. The telecommuting arrangement will be based on the position’s needs and authorized at the manager’s discretion.

**Primary Responsibilities:**

- Create descriptive metadata for new collections in the Digital Library ([https://collections.lib.utah.edu/](https://collections.lib.utah.edu/)), using Dublin Core, the Mountain West Digital Library Metadata Application Profile, and/or other metadata standards, with an emphasis on audiovisual and born digital formats.
- Participate in developing and improving metadata workflows and best practices.
- Audit metadata from existing collections to identify clean-up projects and improve consistency in the Digital Library.
- Manage the digital exhibits program ([https://exhibits.lib.utah.edu/](https://exhibits.lib.utah.edu/)) providing support, training and consultation.
- Provide consultations in their areas of expertise on new and emerging projects within the library and on campus.
- Engage in scholarship or creative activities consistent with the mission of the University and specific position responsibilities.
- Serve on library and university committees.

**Management & Supervision:**

This position reports directly to the Metadata Strategies Librarian and is not currently responsible for supervising other employees.

**Join us in creating a great organization:**

We welcome applications from qualified candidates of all backgrounds, including those who may not have followed a traditional career path. We are especially interested in identifying and interviewing candidates with experience and expertise that will contribute to advancing our mission to provide everyone with access to information resources and educational opportunities. The Marriott Library faculty and staff are committed to ensuring that the University of Utah is a place where people can unite in a spirit of belonging and community. The Utah Office of Refugee Services cited the library’s leadership efforts when it named the University of Utah “Employer of the Year.” Current digital exhibits highlight the contributions of many different groups in our community, such as women in STEM, Utah’s Japanese American community, and youth activist artists. We have a long tradition of incorporating universal design principles into our physical and virtual spaces.

The library is currently undergoing a strategic planning process. Our plan will ultimately align with the University’s evolving Strategy 2030 ([https://strategy.utah.edu](https://strategy.utah.edu)).

The information in this posting is intended to give applicants an understanding of the role and the types of skills, experiences, and credentials that will typically make someone qualified for consideration and prepared to meet the position expectations. We do not expect any candidate to be a perfect match for everything listed or to perform all duties with equal proficiently on day one. In your CV and cover letter, please highlight the most relevant qualifications you would bring to this position based on the posting.

**Required Qualifications:**

- ALA-accredited MLS/MLIS or equivalent.
- Knowledge of current and emerging metadata standards and best practices
- Experience creating descriptive metadata for digital collections
- Strong written, verbal, and interpersonal communication skills
- Ability to manage multiple projects and responsibilities in a timely and efficient manner
- Commitment to engage in research and scholarship and potential to achieve promotion and tenure, as demonstrated by a record of research and scholarship and/or an ability to clearly articulate a research agenda.

**Preferred Qualifications:**

- Demonstrated knowledge of metadata formats, standards, and schemas for digital collections (e.g. Dublin Core, EAD, etc.)
- Experience using technologies for metadata creation, management, and remediation
- Experience working with a digital asset management system (e.g. Islandora, Hyrax, CONTENTdm) and/or a web-publishing platform (Omeka, Wordpress)
- Experience working with metadata transformation through tools, scripting, or regular expressions
- Demonstrated proficiency and capability with information technology systems in the context of an academic library

**Criteria for Faculty Appointment:**

To be eligible for appointment at the Assistant rank, you will need to demonstrate evidence of active participation and involvement in professional and scholarly associations and a record of scholarly engagement.

To be eligible for appointment at the Associate rank, you must have demonstrated a record of achievement sufficient to be awarded tenure concurrent with the appointment. At the time of appointment, a packet demonstrating evidence of active participation in professional associations and a record of scholarly engagement will be required.

The successful completion of a criminal background check is required by Utah state law ([http://www.regulations.utah.edu/humanResources/5-130.html](http://www.regulations.utah.edu/humanResources/5-130.html)).

**Compensation:**

Salary is for a 12-month effort and will be dependent on qualifications and rank appointment.

The budgeted salary range for appointment at the Assistant Librarian rank is $63,000-$68,000.

The budgeted salary range for appointment at the Associate Librarian rank is $75,000-78,000.

Our excellent benefits include a 14.2% retirement contribution to TIAA-CREF/Fidelity, medical and dental coverage, and generous paid sick and vacation time.


**Job Location**

Salt Lake City, UT
