+++
title = "Arts and Sciences Data Steward"
employer = "University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill"
employerurl = "https://www.unc.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://unc.peopleadmin.com/postings/271418"
postdate = "2024-01-05"
archivedate = "2024-03-22"
draft = "false"
+++

**Arts and Sciences Data Steward**
 I am excited to announce that we are searching for the next team member of the new Research Data Management Core (RDMC) at the University of North Carolina—Chapel Hill! 

RDMC was established by the UNC Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research to build an ecosystem of research data management and sharing that aligns, coordinates, and federates data support infrastructure, services, and expertise on UNC’s campus.   

RDMC is prioritizing the recruitment of an Arts and Sciences Data Steward, who will develop and deploy resources, services, and training to researchers in the social sciences, physical sciences, and humanities. The hiring salary range is $90,000–$120,000, depending on experience and qualifications. 

Recognizing the particular requirements of researchers in these domains regarding data management and sharing, we seek candidates with demonstrated expertise in research data management, sharing, and curation. Additionally, we are looking for specialized knowledge and experience addressing the critical issues of managing and sharing both quantitative and qualitative data. 

**Full Description**

**Department** Research Data Management Core-631350

**Career Area** Research Professionals

**Position Type** Permanent Staff (EHRA NF)

**Appointment Type** EHRA Non-Faculty

**Position Number** 20061019

**Vacancy ID** NF0007652

**Full Time/Part Time** Full-Time Permanent

**FTE** 1

**Hours per week** 40

**Hiring Range** $90,000 - $120,000

**Be a Tar Heel!**

**Primary Purpose of Organizational Unit**
The Research Data Management Core (RDMC) is a campus unit that was established by the Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research (OVCR) in response to scientific data management and sharing policies issued by federal funding agencies and other critical stakeholders in the scientific enterprise at UNC. These policies demand development and implementation of a campus-wide research data management strategy that supports compliance with those policies.

Authorized and financially supported by the OVCR, the RDMC has been charged with providing overall direction and oversight of operations and activities that prioritize research data management and sharing leadership, support, and innovation. The Director of the Research Data Management Core provides reporting of operations, finances, and program outcomes to the OVCR for program evaluation and unit accountability.

**Position Summary**
The Arts and Sciences Data Steward is a position in the Research Data Management Core (RDMC) unit that supports lifecycle research data management and sharing activities in areas of the UNC campus engaged in research in the arts and sciences disciplines. Reporting to the Assistant Director for Research Data Stewardship, this position develops and deploys resources, services, and training to sustain a unified, campus-wide ecosystem of research data management and sharing infrastructure that supports compliance with funding agency policies and to promote the goals of those policies. It also supports implementation of RDMC strategies by engaging with researchers to assess, plan, and implement research data management initiatives to support and promote data management and sharing best practices across the research lifecycle as mandated by funding agencies, institutions, and professional norms and expectations.

The Arts and Sciences Data Steward has demonstrated expertise in research data management, sharing, and curation, with additional specialized knowledge and experience addressing the critical issues and challenges of managing and sharing data produced in the arts and sciences disciplines. S/He will possess knowledge of research methods and processes to assist researchers with the development and implementation of data management and sharing plans. S/He will also have a keen understanding of trends in research practices, scientific publication, funding agency and institutional policies, and information technology requirements, and how these trends affect the research data management and sharing requirements and preferences of research communities.

The primary purpose of the Arts and Sciences Data Steward position is to: 1) proactively engage with researchers and research support staff to promote scientific community norms and expectations for research data management and sharing practices and support data policy compliance; 2) develop and lead initiatives that address current and emerging research data management and curation requirements of research communities working in the arts and sciences domains; 3) establish and implement training programs that support researchers’ adoption of data management and sharing best practices as part of their normative research practice; 4) provide supervision and mentorship to graduate students participating in research assistantship programs designed to complement graduate training in research data management and curation; and 5) make contributions to the data archives profession to help advance the practice of data curation.

**Minimum Education and Experience Requirements**
Relevant post-Baccalaureate degree required (or foreign degree equivalent); for candidates demonstrating comparable independent research productivity or comparable background in independent academic or instructional activities, will accept a relevant Bachelor’s degree (or foreign degree equivalent) and 3 or more years of relevant experience in substitution. This experience may be related to the direction/oversight of programs that focus the academic and research resources of a higher education institution towards community or regional issues.

**Required Qualifications, Competencies, and Experience**

- Minimum of 3 years of supervisory experience in a research support organization responsible for deploying research data management support technology and services.
- Demonstrated proficiency in various statistical software packages such as SAS, Stata, R, and SPSS, with a strong willingness and aptitude for gaining mastery of other complex programming languages.
- Practical experience using research data collection and management platforms such as REDCap, Qualtrics, RSpace, Dataverse, Zenodo, Github, and/or other similar systems for managing and/or archiving research data.
- Experience in planning and executing data curation tasks in accordance with prevailing archival standards and best practices, with particular consideration to trustworthy repository selection and laws/regulations governing the handling and management of human subjects research data.
- Experience developing and delivering research data management and curation training to learners of varying abilities and diverse backgrounds.
Ability to effectively communicate with audiences of various backgrounds and professional levels including university administrators, faculty researchers, students, and other research stakeholders.

**Preferred Qualifications, Competencies, and Experience**
- Advanced degree in information and library science with coursework in research data management and curation, with an additional degree in an arts and sciences-related field.
- In-depth applied knowledge of current issues and trending topics in the scientific publishing, Open Science, research reproducibility, and data policy landscape
- History of contributions to greater professional and scholarly communities through active participation in professional conferences and meetings, publications, funded projects, and other scholarly outputs

**Job Location**

Chapel Hill, NC
