+++
title = "Research Data Services Librarian/Specialist"
employer = "Bucknell University"
employerurl = "https://www.bucknell.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://bucknell.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/External/job/Research-Data-Services-Librarian-Specialist_R0000000060"
postdate = "2024-03-21"
archivedate = "2024-04-16"
draft = "false"
+++

**Research Data Services Librarian/Specialist**

**Job Summary:**

The Research Services department in Bucknell University’s Library and Information Technology division  invites applications for a Research Data Services Librarian/Specialist. This role will contribute to the vibrant teaching, learning, and research culture at Bucknell University, which encompasses data-rich courses and undergraduate research experiences in the social sciences, natural sciences, humanities, engineering, and management. As part of the Research Services team, this position will provide instructional and research support for students, faculty, and staff, working closely with data-intensive courses, assignments, and research projects across the disciplines. The successful candidate will also support research data management activities, promote data literacy, and develop policies and procedures for data curation, sharing, and reuse at Bucknell. This position will work closely with our Digital Pedagogy and Scholarship department to help support Library & IT’s robust programs in GIS and digital scholarship across the University. If hired as a librarian, this position may have liaison duties with one or more academic departments, based on experience and institutional needs. While this position works closely with students and usually requires an on-campus presence, the role does allow for flexibility to engage in some remote work, particularly when students are not on campus.

We encourage candidates who have experience and expertise working with underserved and/or underrepresented student populations to apply. As a member of the Bucknell community, the Research Data Services Librarian/Specialist is expected to contribute to a work environment that is inclusive, diverse and supportive of all members of a vibrant and diverse University community, including students, faculty and staff.

This position reports to the Director of Research Services and Information Literacy.  

Library and Information Technology at Bucknell is a unified organization that has evolved dramatically, shedding over time many of the distinctions that frequently separate university library and information technology departments. Library & Information Technology takes pride in its accomplishments and its important role at Bucknell. Staff members are committed to professionalism, excellence and service through: innovation and creativity; collaboration; diversity and inclusion; integrity; trust and trustworthiness; and communication and transparency.

This is a 12 month (40 hours a week), exempt (salary), benefits-eligible position based in Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.

This role is not budgeted for visa sponsorship at this time, all candidates must be authorized to work in the US at the time of submission of the application.

**Job Duties:**

- Partners with students, faculty, and academic staff to support data-intensive courses, assignments, research projects, and data literacy initiatives across the university
- Teaches research skills, methods, and/or software packages relevant to data discovery, collection, analysis, and visualization
- Offers services and programs to support the research data management lifecycle across disciplines, including consultations with faculty and other campus partners on the development of data management plans for grant applications
- Works with appropriate university constituents to develop policies and procedures for data curation, sharing, and reuse at Bucknell
- Performs outreach to increase awareness of data services and resources provided by the library
- Other duties as assigned.

**MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:**

- Relevant advanced degree (minimum of a Master's degree). 
- Two years of relevant experience working with research data analysis, data management, data curation, and/or data services
- Familiarity with one or more software packages, such as: SPSS, Stata, R, SAS, Excel, Tableau, Nvivo, Qualtrics
- Ability to provide reference and instruction services across disciplines
- Understanding of needs in research data management across the research lifecycle, including creation, analysis, preservation, access, and reuse of research data
- Excellent oral and written communication skills, as well as the ability to work both independently and collaboratively with other Library & IT staff, students, faculty, and staff

**PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS:**

- MLS from an ALA-accredited institution 
- Strong interest in working with undergraduate students
- Teaching experience
- Experience working with both qualitative and quantitative data
- Knowledge of or interest in working with open data

**Salary Range:** 59,570.00-74,700.00

The offer rate will be based on a review of the candidate's credentials compared to the qualifications of the position, internal equity, and our overall compensation philosophy. 

This role is not budgeted for visa sponsorship at this time, all candidates must be authorized to work in the US at the time of submission of the application.

**Benefits:**

Eligible full- and part-time employees are compensated beyond base salary through our total rewards package that includes (but is not limited to):

- Flexible scheduling options determined by role; 
- Medical, prescription drug, vision, dental, life, and long-term disability insurance options
- An outstanding 10% employer contribution to your retirement plan (no contribution requirement for non-exempt positions)
- Generous paid time off, including vacation and sick time, a community service day, and 19 paid holidays (including two full weeks off for Winter Break!)
- Full-time and part-time members of the faculty and staff are eligible for tuition remission for themselves. Additionally, full-time members of the faculty and staff are eligible for tuition remission for their spouse/spousal equivalent and are eligible for various tuition programs for their children. Credit for full-time benefits eligible employment at other institutions of higher education will be applied to waiting periods.
- A comprehensive employee wellness program including program incentives
- A myriad of other benefits, including parental leave, an employee assistance program, fitness center membership, and the power of your Bucknell ID card 

To learn more about Bucknell's benefits, click [here](https://www.bucknell.edu/azdirectory/human-resources/employee-benefits)! (*Eligibility criteria and waiting periods may apply.)

**Diversity, Equity & Inclusion:**

Bucknell is committed to fostering an environment that embraces diversity, equity and inclusion, and seeks candidates who will contribute to a climate that supports the growth and development of a diverse campus community.  We endeavor to enhance our capacity to value and capitalize on the cultural richness that diversity brings.  We encourage all individuals to apply and do not discriminate in admissions, employment, educational programs and/or activities on the basis of race, color, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, disability, pregnancy, sex/gender, gender identity and/or expression, sexual orientation, marital or family status, military or veteran status, or genetic information.

**Job Location**

Lewisburg, PA
