+++
title = "Tenure-Track or Tenured Faculty in Digital Archives"
employer = "University of Michigan, School of Information"
employerurl = "https://umich.edu"
moreinfourl = "https://wustl.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/External/job/Olin-Library/Data-Management-and-Sharing-Specialist---University-Libraries_JR85017"
postdate = "2024-10-23"
archivedate = "2024-11-13"
draft = "false"
+++

**Tenure-Track or Tenured Faculty in Digital Archives AY 24-25**

**Position description**

The University of Michigan's School of Information (UMSI) invites applications for a tenure-track faculty position specializing in digital archives and digital curation. This hire aims to further integrate our established expertise in archival and library science with our leadership in data science. Potential research areas include:

-   Critical digital archival and data studies

-   Computational approaches to archives, broadly construed

-   Data technologies and infrastructure

-   Artificial intelligence and archives

-   Infrastructures, tools, and policies for digital archives

-   Records creation, curation, and preservation technologies, including data security mechanisms

-   Data documentation, search, discovery, and reuse

-   Building and managing large-scale digital data archives

UMSI is committed to encouraging a collaborative academic environment. We are excited by a new colleague who shares our mission and offers unique and divergent perspectives on it. We look forward to your application and the possibility of you joining our team to push the boundaries of digital archives and data science at the University of Michigan's School of Information.

**Job Expectations and Responsibilities:**

Job responsibilities include research, teaching, and service. Job
responsibilities include but are not limited to:

-   Conduct scholarly research resulting in publications in peer-reviewed journals, book chapters, edited books, books, and conference proceedings

-   Seek external funding to support their research program

-   Teach in UMSI's five academic programs

-   Mentor students for independent studies, master's projects and theses, and doctoral dissertations

-   Provide service to the school, university, and the broader academic community through committee work, journal editing, community engagement, and other opportunities.

Each contributing member of the UMSI faculty will have a teaching effort equivalent to three semester-long courses per year.

**About UMSI and UM**

The mission of the School of Information is to create and share knowledge to help people use information \-- with technology \-- to build a better world. A successful candidate will be committed to, and will directly contribute to, our goal of being the best research and teaching institution for the understanding and design of information and its technologies in service of people and society. The diverse perspectives the UMSI community brings to our scholarship, teaching, and service make our school stronger and help us fulfill our mission of building a better world through technology and information. The School is home to vibrant research and teaching programs, with 80 FTE professors and over 1,848 students. We offer five degrees: a Ph.D., a Master of Science in Information, a Master of Health Informatics, a Bachelor of Science in Information, and an online Master of Applied Data Science. To learn more about UMSI's DEI office and initiatives, visit [[https://www.si.umich.edu/about-umsi/diversity-equity-inclusion-office]{.underline}](https://www.si.umich.edu/about-umsi/diversity-equity-inclusion-office).
For more information about UMSI, please visit: [[www.si.umich.edu]{.underline}](http://www.si.umich.edu/).

Founded in 1817, the University of Michigan has a long and distinguished history as one of the first public universities in the nation. It is one of only two public institutions consistently ranked among the nation\'s top ten universities. The University has one of the largest health care complexes in the world and one of the best library systems in the United States. With more than \$1.53 billion in research expenditures annually, the University has the second-largest research expenditure among all universities in the nation. The University has an annual general fund budget of more than \$2.3 billion and an endowment valued at more than $12.5 billion.

From great benefits to on-site wellness programs, UM provides resources to support faculty, staff, and their family's health and happiness. For instance, UM offers comprehensive health, dental, and vision insurance, child care centers and a retirement plan with two-for-one matching contributions and immediate vesting. Dual career support from the Provost\'s Office is available to domestic partners of faculty recruits regardless of marital status or sexual orientation. To learn more about the great benefits UM provides, please visit
[[https://hr.umich.edu/benefits-wellness]{.underline}](https://hr.umich.edu/benefits-wellness).

**Minimum Qualifications**

- Ph.D. in an area such as information, library and information science, science and technology studies, social or computer science, or a related discipline

- Potential for or demonstrated ability for exemplary teaching at the undergraduate and/or graduate levels

- A strong commitment to interdisciplinary research and cultural diversity

**Desired Qualifications**

- A record in teaching and research

**Location**

Ann Arbor, MI
