+++
title = "Research Data Management Librarian"
employer = "University of Virginia"
employerurl = "https://www.virginia.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://jobs.virginia.edu/us/en/job/R0068221/Research-Data-Management-Librarian"
postdate = "2024-12-19"
archivedate = "2025-01-14"
draft = "false"
+++

**Research Data Management Librarian**

UVA Library is seeking a **Research Data Management Librarian** in the Research Data Services & Social, Natural, and Engineering Sciences team. This position is responsible for providing support to researchers at all levels and across all disciplines engaged in data-intensive research by providing data management support. The incumbent will provide consultation and support for data management, metadata production, data organization and preservation issues to researchers in partnership with library colleagues. The incumbent will support researchers in the development and implementation of data management plans, and will offer guidance on technical data management issues, including acquisition, transfer, and storage of data. The incumbent will also contribute to and advise on the University Library’s efforts to broadly serve the needs of researchers to manage, document, share, and preserve the products of their research, complying with sponsor mandates and changing norms for making data assets available and improving research reproducibility.  

The Research Data Management Librarian will develop and provide educational opportunities to support researchers at all proficiency levels, assessing needs, coordinating learning opportunities, and actively marketing content. This includes developing hands-on workshops on topics around data management (including data management planning and implementation, and data repository usage). The incumbent will also organize outreach campaigns for research data management issues and contribute to online instructional content by creating videos, writing tutorials, and providing access to all workshop materials.  

The Research Data Services & Social, Natural, Engineering Sciences team provides data discovery, data management, and statistical consulting services to support the full data lifecycle, and provides liaison support to Engineering, Science, and Social Science departments. The incumbent will collaborate with Library colleagues to stay abreast of current and anticipated data needs and to promote data skills throughout the Library, and to support data literacy across the University. The Research Data Management Librarian will partner with Library staff to work with multiple stakeholders across the institution and to contribute to data-related services via pan-university initiatives.  

**About the University of Virginia Library:**

The University of Virginia was conceived with a library at its heart, placed in the Rotunda at the head of the Academical Village. Today, the UVA Library’s original purpose remains unchanged: to provide access to accumulated knowledge and, in so doing, increase it — in short, to advance learning.

The Library is here to ensure that the University community has the information it needs for teaching, research, and personal enjoyment and enrichment. Regularly ranked in the top quartile of ARL libraries, UVA Library has six locations, more than 220 staffers, and more than 100 student employees. Staff members support a collection that includes more than 20 million manuscripts and archive materials, 4.8 million books, 4.5 million e-books, and hundreds of thousands of journal subscriptions. Additionally, as a major research institution, the Library regularly collaborates with professional organizations such as the Virtual Library of Virginia (VIVA), Virginia Library Association, Association of College and Research Libraries, and others.

The University of Virginia Library is committed to a culture of mutual respect, civility, inclusiveness, cooperation, mindfulness, accountability, and acceptance of individual differences. Departments and individuals are expected to work together, both in professional collaborations and in creating a culture where all can thrive. Library staff enjoy generous benefits for use of Library materials and professional development, in addition to UVA’s standard benefits package.

UVA is located in beautiful Charlottesville with easy access to the Blue Ridge Mountains; Richmond; Washington, D.C.; and the Eastern Shore. Charlottesville is a vibrant town with culture, music, numerous restaurants, excellent schools, and countless outdoor activities.

**Required Qualifications:**  

- Master’s degree in library/Information Science or other relevant academic discipline, OR a Bachelor’s degree and at least 4 years of related experience with data management, data repositories, data curation, and research.  
- Knowledge of foundational research data management principles and best practices, with a particular focus on the research data lifecycle.  
- Knowledge of emerging trends in research data.  
- Knowledge of open and reproducible research practices.  
- Excellent communication skills, with the ability to reach out to and engage target audiences, effectively communicate in all formats, and adapt communication style to suit different audiences.  
- Proficiency in public speaking and providing instruction, both formal and informal, to varying audiences and skill levels.  

**Preferred Qualifications:**

- Experience providing full data life cycle support (management, storage and archiving, curation). 
- Proficiency with a computational environment (e.g., Python, R, C).  
- Experience with version control (e.g., Git and GitHub).  
- Experience delivering research support in an academic environment.  
- Experience creating a variety of online materials, including video, blog posts, and LibGuides.  

The UVA Library supports career development and provides opportunities for both formal and informal training as part of professional development. We are interested in reviewing candidates with a broad range and combination of experiences, education, and qualifications. We are dedicated to building a diverse, inclusive, and dynamic workplace, so if you are excited about this role, but your past experience doesn’t align perfectly with every preferred qualification in the job description, we encourage you to apply anyway. 

. Review of applicants will begin January 27, 2025, and the position will remain open until filled. 


**Salary**

Anticipated hiring range: $69,500 - $72,500

**Job Location**

Charlottesville, VA
