+++
title = "Research Services Librarian for Business and Data"
employer = "George Washington University"
employerurl = "https://www.gwu.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://www.gwu.jobs/postings/118223"
postdate = "2025-02-26"
archivedate = "2025-03-11"
draft = "false"
+++

**Research Services Librarian for Business and Data**

The George Washington University Libraries and Academic Innovation (GWLAI) enriches the academic experience of scholars and students and sparks innovation at GW. We enable research and teaching through access to the latest scholarship and rich archival resources, tailored support for researchers at all levels, guidance for faculty who want to explore new teaching methods and technologies in the classroom, and robust support for online education. Through innovative partnerships, dynamic workshops, and team-based approaches to project management and problem solving, GWLAI fosters collaboration and provides leadership across the university to support the shared mission of generating, making accessible, and preserving new knowledge. Having joined the Association of American Universities (AAU) in 2023, GW is at an exciting moment in its history and trajectory, and GWLAI is a key partner in supporting the university’s research and scholarly advancements and promoting discoveries and innovations made by the research community.

GWLAI seeks a collaborative and service-oriented Research Services Librarian for Business and Data to join the Research and User Services (RUS) department. RUS is a highly collaborative unit where librarians work together to meet student, faculty, and researcher needs across disciplines. The Research Services Librarian for Business and Data will provide research support, instruction, and collection development services focused on–but not exclusively–business, economics, finance, and data-related fields. The ideal candidate will have expertise or a strong interest in business intelligence, financial research, data literacy, and analytical tools used in business and economics research. This position will play a vital role in helping students and faculty navigate business and economics datasets, data visualization tools, and statistical software. LAI staff and librarians are champions of open access and support open scholarly communication and publishing practices, including the adoption and creation of open educational resources. We also contribute to the scholarly community through our own research, professional engagement, and service.

**Specific Duties and Responsibilities:**

- Support the needs of researchers in business, economics, and finance departments, and related disciplines providing research assistance and instruction.
- Develop and deliver instruction sessions and workshops on topics such as business intelligence, market research, financial data analysis, and economics data sources.
- Provide consultations on data discovery, management, analysis, and visualization for business and economics research.
- Assist students, staff, and faculty in finding, analyzing, and managing business and financial data, including databases such as Bloomberg, WRDS, S&P Capital IQ, and IBISWorld.
- Support qualitative and quantitative research through statistical and data analysis tools such as R, Python, Stata, SPSS, and Tableau.
- Collaborate on collection development efforts to ensure resources meet the needs of business and economics researchers.
- Support open data, open educational resources (OERs), and scholarly communication initiatives in business and economics research.
- Conduct library instruction for undergraduate and graduate level courses in partnership with faculty, including partnering with GW’s first-year University Writing Program.
- Support workshops and other programming to engage faculty, students, and other researchers in advancing data literacy and coding skills.
- Participate in collaborative collection development, building relationships and supporting faculty and departments through active engagement.
- Contribute to strategic services or teams in GWLAI. Current areas of focus include supporting scholarly communications, increasing college affordability through the adoption of Open Educational Resources (OERs), and data and computational fluency.
- Contribute to the broader professional community by sharing knowledge in scholarly/professional venues and through service to the University and the profession

**Minimum Qualifications:**

- ALA-accredited Master’s degree in library or information science OR an advanced degree in business, economics, data science, or a related field with relevant experience by date of appointment
- Demonstrated ability to support researchers in business, finance, economics and data analysis
- Knowledge of or experience with specialized business and financial data resources (e.g. Datastream, Compustat, and WRDS)
- Demonstrated collaboration skills, with a commitment to supporting an inclusive research community
- Strong initiative and results-driven approach in previous roles
- Demonstrated excellent oral and written communication skills
- Knowledge of current trends, issues, and challenges facing researchers

**Preferred Qualifications**

- Experience or coursework in data analysis, visualization, or business intelligence tools (e.g., Tableau, Power BI, R, Python, Stata, SPSS)
- Familiarity with economic and financial modeling, forecasting, or data management best practices
- Knowledge of scholarly publishing trends and current research data management practices


Salary and appointment at the rank of Librarian I/II/III/IV are dependent upon qualifications.

Salary is negotiable, contingent upon rank, skills and qualifications and is competitive for DC-area academic libraries. Comprehensive benefits package includes 22 days/year paid annual leave; 12 days/year paid sick leave; paid winter break and 8 other holidays; medical, dental, and vision; 401(A) retirement plan, 4% base and GW will match 150% of the first 4% of your 403(B) contributions, up to a maximum of 6% of your eligible compensation; tuition assistance; ongoing support for professional development; and paid parental leave. Librarians are eligible to apply for research leave after a defined period of service. For benefit details, please visit [GW Benefits](https://hr.gwu.edu/benefits).

This position is classified as a [Council of Librarians](https://library.gwu.edu/council-librarians) position and is eligible for a hybrid on-campus/remote work schedule. This position is a continual reappointment position with reappointment periods of 3-5 years depending on rank. Proven commitment to the profession is expected and can be exhibited through service, publication, and/or presentations.

This position reports to a Director of Research Services and is eligible for partial telework

The University and GWLAI have a strong commitment to recruiting librarians of the highest caliber who have thrived in different environments and would enrich the University with different experiences and perspectives. We offer a work environment that values and supports collaboration, teamwork, and professional growth and development 

**Salary:**

Librarian 1: $58,566 - $65,000

Librarian 2: $61,156 - $78,000

Librarian 3: $65,156 - $81,000

Librarian 4: $71,656 - $130,000

**Job Location**

Washington, DC
