+++
title = "Collections Strategist"
employer = "George Washington University"
employerurl = "https://www.gwu.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://www.gwu.jobs/postings/118234"
postdate = "2025-02-26"
archivedate = "2025-03-11"
draft = "false"
+++

**Collections Strategist**

The George Washington University Libraries and Academic Innovation (GWLAI) enriches the academic experience of scholars and students and sparks innovation at GW. We enable research and teaching through access to the latest scholarship and rich archival resources, tailored support for researchers at all levels, guidance for faculty who want to explore new teaching methods and technologies in the classroom, and robust support for online education. Through innovative partnerships, dynamic workshops, and team-based approaches to project management and problem solving, GWLAI fosters collaboration and provides leadership across the university to support the shared mission of generating, making accessible, and preserving new knowledge. Having joined the Association of American Universities (AAU) in 2023, GW is at an exciting moment in its history and trajectory, and GWLAI is a key partner in supporting the university’s research and scholarly advancements and promoting discoveries and innovations made by the research community.

GWLAI is seeking a collaborative and service-oriented Collections Strategist to join the Research and User Services (RUS) department. RUS is a highly collaborative unit where librarians work together to meet student, faculty, and researcher needs across disciplines. Critical to this work is the development, management, assessment, and discovery of our research collections. As an active member of RUS, the Collections Strategist will lead our team-based collection development and maintenance efforts that are responsive to user need; steward university resources to acquire collections that provide this highest possible value to the GW community; and make data-driven decisions that align collections strategy and investments with ever-evolving research, teaching, and scholarly communications needs and aspirations. LAI staff and librarians are champions of open access and support open scholarly communication and publishing practices, including the adoption and creation of open educational resources. We also contribute to the scholarly community through our own research, professional engagement, and service.

**Specific Duties and Responsibilities:**

**Develop and Assess Collections**

- Lead a collaborative and strategic process for prioritizing and acquiring resources across disciplinary areas to support scholarship and creative work in an R1 university setting.
- Collaborate across institutions, including the GWU Health Sciences and Law Libraries, and our partner institutions within the Washington Research Library Consortium (WRLC), to develop shared collections and to explore issues, challenges, and opportunities to advance cooperative collection development.
- Collaborate with colleagues in Finance, Electronic Resources, Research and User Services, and other stakeholders in articulating negotiation priorities for the Libraries and negotiating license terms with vendors.
- Coordinate cross-departmental engagement and communication with vendors.
- Engage with Finance Director and other stakeholders in planning and monitoring collections spending, including regular budget updates with respect to fiscal-year targets.
- Pilot and assess new collection development approaches using knowledge of the scholarly publishing landscape and emerging trends in publisher agreements.
- Work with colleagues in Acquisitions and Financial Operations to maintain an efficient workflow for orders and subscription renewals in accordance with spending priorities.
- Take the lead in proposing collections workflow modifications to continuously improve internal communication and strengthen processes.
- Develop and lead collection assessment efforts to ensure alignment with research, teaching, and learning priorities at GW, leveraging user-driven access models such as demand-driven and evidence-based acquisitions.
- Produce analyses, data visualizations, and reports to inform collection development.
- Use computational assessment techniques and data analytics tools (e.g. Tableau or similar software) to support collection development activities and lead, develop, and complete projects.

**Collaborate in support of Research**

- Support open data, open educational resources (OERs), and scholarly communication initiatives.
- Conduct library instruction for undergraduate and graduate level courses in partnership with faculty, including partnering with GW’s first-year University Writing Program.
- Support students, staff, and faculty via research consultations, library instruction, and workshops across disciplines.
- Contribute to strategic services or teams in GWLAI. Current areas of focus include supporting scholarly communications, increasing college affordability through the adoption of Open Educational Resources (OERs), and data and computational fluency.
- Contribute to the broader professional community by sharing knowledge in scholarly/professional venues and through service to the University and the profession

**Minimum Qualifications:**

- ALA-accredited Master’s degree in library or information science or other advanced degree with relevant experience by date of appointment
- Experience with collection development and assessment in an academic or research library setting
- Demonstrated experience or interest in data analysis using tools like Excel, Tableau, or other data visualization software
- Demonstrated collaboration skills, with a commitment to supporting an inclusive research community
- Strong initiative and results-driven approach in previous roles
- Demonstrated excellent oral and written communication skills
- Knowledge of current and emerging trends, issues, and challenges facing researchers

**Preferred Qualifications**

- Knowledge of scholarly publishing trends, library licensing models, and electronic resource management
- Strong experience in data analysis using tools like Excel, Tableau, or other data visualization software
- Experience negotiating license agreements and managing vendor relationships
- Familiarity with budget management and financial planning for collections
- Experience with bibliometrics, citation analysis, or other research impact assessments
- Knowledge of open access, OER, and scholarly communication trends

Salary and appointment at the rank of Librarian I/II/III/IV are dependent upon qualifications.

Salary is negotiable, contingent upon rank, skills and qualifications and is competitive for DC-area academic libraries. Comprehensive benefits package includes 22 days/year paid annual leave; 12 days/year paid sick leave; paid winter break and 8 other holidays; medical, dental, and vision; 401(A) retirement plan, 4% base and GW will match 150% of the first 4% of your 403(B) contributions, up to a maximum of 6% of your eligible compensation; tuition assistance; ongoing support for professional development; and paid parental leave. Librarians are eligible to apply for research leave after a defined period of service. For benefit details, please visit [GW Benefits](https://hr.gwu.edu/benefits).

This position is classified as a [Council of Librarians](https://library.gwu.edu/council-librarians) position and is eligible for a hybrid on-campus/remote work schedule. This position is a continual reappointment position with reappointment periods of 3-5 years depending on rank. Proven commitment to the profession is expected and can be exhibited through service, publication, and/or presentations.

This position reports to a Director of Research Services and is eligible for partial telework

The University and GWLAI have a strong commitment to recruiting librarians of the highest caliber who have thrived in different environments and would enrich the University with different experiences and perspectives. We offer a work environment that values and supports collaboration, teamwork, and professional growth and development 

**Salary:**

Librarian 1: $58,566 - $65,000

Librarian 2: $61,156 - $78,000

Librarian 3: $65,156 - $81,000

Librarian 4: $71,656 - $130,000

**Job Location**

Washington, DC
