+++
title = "Data Management Librarian"
employer = "University of Houston"
employerurl = "https://libraries.uh.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://libraries.uh.edu/about/employment/research-data-management-librarian/"
postdate = "2025-03-13"
archivedate = "2025-04-10"
draft = "false"
+++

**Data Management Librarian**

The University of Houston (UH) Libraries seeks a collaborative, enterprising, and creative candidate for the position of Data Management Librarian. This position resides in the Libraries’ Research Services department, which provides infrastructure, programs, and services in support of digital humanities, research visibility and impact, data services, and scholarly publishing activities.

Reporting to the Head of Research Services, the Data Management Librarian leads the expansion of the Libraries’ data management service portfolio in alignment with the FAIR Guiding Principles for scientific data management and stewardship. The successful candidate will manage and promote the UH Dataverse Repository and DMPTool while contributing to other aspects of UH Libraries’ digital publishing and repository ecosystem, collaboratively developing services that promote best practices for research data accessibility, attribution and identification, storage, archiving, and discoverability.

The position offers opportunities to collaborate with the Libraries’ Teaching and Learning department, Resource Management and Metadata department, as well as the Health Sciences and Medical libraries to build new campus resources and teach data management skills through workshops, classroom instruction, and engagement with researchers pursuing funded research. The candidate is expected to expand and maintain partnerships across campus to address current and emerging data management needs among faculty, students, and research centers, including the Division of Research, University Information Technology, and the Hewlett Packard Enterprise Data Science Institute, among others.

The University of Houston is a federally designated Hispanic Serving Institution and Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-Serving Institution in the heart of a diverse city and state. The university prepares students to thrive in a globally interconnected world while contributing impactful research and innovation to the region and beyond. We welcome candidates from all backgrounds and experiences who are prepared to engage in this environment.

The Data Management Librarian is a librarian position. Librarians hold academic rank pursuant to the University of Houston Librarians’ Bylaws. They are expected to develop a record of service, scholarship, and professional involvement. The UH Libraries support the ongoing professional development of librarians, and our goal is to recruit librarians committed to continuous learning.

**Qualifications**

**Required:**

- Master’s degree from an American Library Association (ALA)-accredited program
- Knowledge of FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Reusable) Guiding Principles and other research data management best practices
- Experience with one or more data repository systems or tools
- Ability to work strategically and collaboratively with stakeholders to build data management services, programs, and initiatives
- Demonstrated excellent communication skills

**Preferred:**

- Experience reviewing and applying best practices to data management plans
- Experience consulting on compliance issues pertaining to funded research
- Knowledge of metadata standards and formats used in research

**Salary**

$63,500-$65,000

**Job Location**

Houston, TX
