+++
title = "Data Librarian"
employer = "University of Toronto"
employerurl = "https://utoronto.ca/"
moreinfourl = "https://jobs.utoronto.ca/job/Toronto-Data-Librarian-%28Librarian-III-Contractually-Limited-Term-Appointment%29-ON/590645817/"
postdate = "2025-03-19"
archivedate = "2025-04-10"
draft = "false"
+++

**Data Librarian**

Are you looking for challenging, meaningful work in a supportive and diverse environment? Are you looking for a career at one of Canada’s top employers? Work where the world comes to think, discover and learn. Consider a career at the University of Toronto.

**About the University of Toronto Libraries**

The University of Toronto Libraries system is the largest academic library in Canada and is consistently ranked in the top ten among academic research libraries in North America. The system consists of 40 libraries located on three university campuses: St. George, Mississauga, and Scarborough. This array of college libraries, special collections, and specialized libraries and information centres supports the teaching and research requirements of over 300 graduate programs, more than 70 professional programs, and about 700 undergraduate degree programs. In addition to more than 12 million volumes in 341 languages, the library system currently provides access to millions of electronic resources in various forms and over 31,000 linear metres of archival material. More than 150,000 new print volumes are acquired each year. The Libraries' data centre houses more than 600 servers with a storage capacity of 1.5 petabytes.

**The Opportunity**

Reporting to the Head of the Map and Data Library (MDL), the Data Librarian (RDM) will engage with users across the university as part of a dynamic team that provides a growing range of data services across the full research cycle. The Data Librarian (RDM) will provide research data management services in coordination with other staff and librarians in MDL and across UTL, including all three U of T campuses. Other responsibilities are as follows:

- Provide in-depth research consultations on the planning, management, use, curation, deposit and sharing of research data
- Develop and deliver instructional sessions, material and web resources on research data management and other data-related topics
- Liaise with academic programs involved in data-intensive research and instruction
- Actively engage in local, national and international initiatives around research data management
- Initiate, lead and support special projects
- Investigate and explore emerging areas related to research data services

**Required Qualifications**

- Master’s degree in library, archival or information science from an accredited institution
- Demonstrated commitment to the values of inclusivity, diversity, equity, anti-racism and accessibility
- Familiarity with data stewardship and research data management concepts, including the development of data management plans and the use of data repositories such as Borealis
- Demonstrated knowledge of and experience with the academic research process, including common research methodologies, data analysis techniques and tools
- Demonstrated commitment to the provision of high-quality public service and instruction
- Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills
- Strong written and oral communication skills and the ability to develop clear, concise, accurate technical documentation
- Ability to work independently and effectively with technology in a fast-paced environment while managing competing priorities
- Demonstrated experience or willingness to work as part of a team
- Ability to work cooperatively and collegially in a culturally diverse and rapidly changing environment

**Preferred Qualifications**

- Knowledge and awareness of Canadian Tri-Agencies’ research data and related policies
- Proven project management skills
- Experience using one or more programming languages such as R or Python
- Experience working with HTML, XML, JSON and other markup languages

**Terms of Appointment:  This is a 1 year Contractually-Limited Term Appointment.** 

It is anticipated that this position will be filled at the Librarian I/II level, subject to review and experience. This appointment is for one year as a parental leave replacement with an anticipated start date of July 1, 2025.

Benefits: We offer generous benefits packages to all employees. Additional information is available at: [https://people.utoronto.ca/careers/benefits/](https://people.utoronto.ca/careers/benefits/)

**Additional information:**

Librarians at the University of Toronto are members of the University of Toronto Faculty Association. 

**Salary**

Minimum salary: LIB I: $76,403; LIB II: $79,720 (Salary is dependent on rank at hire and qualifications)

**Job Location**

Toronto, CA
