+++
title = "Data Instruction and Outreach Librarian"
employer = "University of California, Berkeley"
employerurl = "https://berkeley.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://aprecruit.berkeley.edu/JPF05126"
postdate = "2025-11-06"
archivedate = "2026-02-25"
draft = "false"
+++

**Data Instruction and Outreach Librarian**

This is a two-year, temporary full-time appointment with the possibility of renewal for one additional year based on funding and performance.

**The Environment**

The UC Berkeley Library is an internationally renowned research and teaching facility at one of the nation's premier public universities. A highly diverse and intellectually rich environment, Berkeley serves a campus community of 33,070 undergraduate students, 12,812 graduate students, and 1,525 faculty members. The Library comprises 20 campus libraries, including the Doe Library, the Moffitt Library, the Bancroft Library, the C.V. Starr East Asian Library, and numerous subject specialty libraries. With a collection of more than 12 million volumes and a collections budget of over $15 million, the Library offers extensive resources in all formats and robust services to connect users with the collections and build their research skills.

The Library Data Services Program (LDSP) guides scholars to discover, access, share, and preserve data through dataset acquisition, discovery, and librarian-led instruction and consultations. LDSP works with UC Berkeley librarians and library staff to provide internal professional development and training opportunities to enhance our data management skills and provide data services for our users. LDSP provides data services to all disciplines at UC Berkeley through collaboration with librarians and library staff in the Library’s divisions including Arts and Humanities, Instruction Services, Sciences, and Social Sciences.

**Responsibilities**

The Data Instruction and Outreach Librarian will work in partnership with and under the guidance of the Data Services Librarian in the Library Data Services Program. Librarians and staff in the Library Data Services Program collaborate closely with subject librarians and library staff to provide data support for researchers, faculty, and students who are using data in research, teaching, and learning. This librarian will actively participate in the Library’s instruction services—providing consultations, teaching workshops, and designing instructional content.

The Data Instruction and Outreach Librarian will develop and maintain a scaffolded approach to data instruction that includes: supporting novice users, including undergraduate students, who may be unaccustomed to working with data; providing instruction and outreach for the library’s licensed datasets and platforms; and collaborating with subject and instruction librarians to teach data literacy, ethics, analysis, and visualization. This position also works to integrate data literacy and data science pedagogical practices into the library’s instructional portfolio, with a special focus on undergraduates. Since using AI in data analysis workflows is becoming more common, the librarian will help faculty, researchers, and students use licensed AI tools in conjunction with ethical and legal use of library resources, as well as within the broader University context.

The librarian will engage with the Research Data Management Program. This unique program bridges the UC Berkeley Library and Research IT to conduct outreach related to data management, storage, and sharing. UC Berkeley, through entities like the Library, the College of Computing, Data Science, and Society, the D-Lab, the Berkeley Institute for Data Science, and the Berkeley Initiative for Transparency in the Social Sciences, actively supports the development of research and classroom environments that champion transparency and reproducibility. The successful incumbent will collaborate with these campus partners and librarians to facilitate open research practices and workflows where possible.

UC Berkeley librarians are expected to participate in library-wide planning and governance and work effectively in a shared decision-making environment. Advancement is partially based upon professional contributions beyond the primary assignment; the successful candidate will show evidence or promise of such contributions to the Library, campus, UC System, and profession.

The UC Berkeley Library is committed to supporting and encouraging respect and empathy, and nurturing a culture where all employees thrive. The Library seeks candidates who recognize and appreciate one another’s contributions, expertise, and accomplishments and will strive to provide equitable access to a diverse set of collections and services. For more information, please see the UC Berkeley Library Statement of Values.

UC professional librarians are academic appointees and are represented by an exclusive bargaining agent, the University Council – American Federation of Teachers (UC-AFT). This position is in the bargaining unit. Librarians are entitled to appropriate professional development leave, vacation leave, sick leave, and all other benefits granted to non-faculty academic personnel. The University has an excellent retirement system and sponsors a variety of group health, dental, vision, and life insurance plans in addition to other benefits. This is an externally funded appointment.

This position is eligible for some remote work. Exact arrangements are determined in partnership with your supervisor to meet role responsibilities and department needs, and are subject to change.

UC Berkeley Library Website: [http://www.lib.berkeley.edu/](http://www.lib.berkeley.edu/)

UC Berkeley Library statement of values: [https://www.lib.berkeley.edu/about/library-values](https://www.lib.berkeley.edu/about/library-values)

**Qualifications**

**Basic qualifications** (required at time of application)

- Advanced degree or enrolled in an advanced degree program.

**Additional qualifications** (required at time of start)

- Advanced degree.
- Two years of experience providing reference and instructional services in an academic or professional setting.

**Preferred qualifications**

- Master’s degree from an American Library Association (ALA) accredited institution program or equivalent degree.
- Demonstrated commitment to the [Library's values](https://www.lib.berkeley.edu/about/library-values).
- Demonstrated analytical, presentation, and communication skills.
- Demonstrated ability to provide effective instruction and training related to digital literacy, artificial intelligence, technology skills, and/or research data management.
- Experience working with some languages, platforms, and environments to support interactive, computational research, such as Python, R, Jupyter, GitHub, and/or Unix Shell.
- Participation in The Carpentries or other data science education program.
- Demonstrated experience working effectively with all staff in a highly collaborative, matrixed environment.
- Experience working collaboratively with multiple stakeholders in an academic environment.
- Experience accessing, creating, analyzing, or manipulating qualitative and/or quantitative data for academic research purposes. This may include experience with datasets in the sciences (e.g. astronomy, ecology, genomics) or social sciences (e.g., government, financial, survey).
- Demonstrated knowledge and application of data ethics including awareness of key topics related to artificial intelligence, data privacy, security, and bias as well as legal uses of licensed and open data.

**About UC Berkeley**

UC Berkeley is committed to diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging in our public mission of research, teaching, and service, consistent with [UC Regents Policy 4400](https://regents.universityofcalifornia.edu/governance/policies/4400.html) and University of California Academic Personnel policy ([APM 210 1-d](https://www.ucop.edu/academic-personnel-programs/_files/apm/apm-210.pdf)). These values are embedded in our [Principles of Community](https://chancellor.berkeley.edu/about/principles-community), which reflect our passion for critical inquiry, debate, discovery and innovation, and our deep commitment to contributing to a better world. Every member of the UC Berkeley community has a role in sustaining a safe, caring and humane environment in which these values can thrive.

**Salary**

The UC academic salary scales set the minimum pay determined by rank and salary point at appointment. See the following table(s) for the current salary scale(s) for this position: [https://www.ucop.edu/academic-personnel-programs/_files/2025-26/represented-july-2025-scales/t26-b.pdf](https://www.ucop.edu/academic-personnel-programs/_files/2025-26/represented-july-2025-scales/t26-b.pdf). A reasonable estimate for this position is $80,349-$102,121.

**Job Location**

Berkley, CA
