+++
title = "Data Curation Network Director"
employer = "University of Minnesota"
employerurl = "https://umn.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://hr.myu.umn.edu/psc/hrprd/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/c/HRS_HRAM_FL.HRS_CG_SEARCH_FL.GBL?Page=HRS_APP_SCHJOB_FL&ACTION=U&FOCUS=Applicant&SiteId=1"
postdate = "2025-09-26"
archivedate = "2025-11-05"
draft = "false"
+++

**Data Curation Network Director**

The [Data Curation Network](http://DataCuration.Network) is a cross-institutional organization, based at the University of Minnesota Libraries, for information professionals working in data curation, research data management, data stewardship, data repositories, and other aligned aspects of the field. The Data Curation Network (DCN) strives to build a trusted community-led network of curators advancing open research by making data more ethical, reusable, and understandable.

The Director for the DCN provides operational support and direction for the organization, while coordinating a sense of community across the active network of data curators and stakeholders. In consultation with the DCN Executive Committee, Governance Board, and Advisory Board, the Director is responsible for coordinating shared curation services, fostering connections and community across member institutions, and helping to shape and sustain the DCN. Specifically, the Director will oversee daily operations of the Network, including managing distributed data curation services, as well as engaging in the business and planning aspects of the DCN with a team of dedicated representatives who are committed to the success of the Network.

This position requires occasional travel on behalf of the Data Curation Network and works closely with colleagues across the United States.

**Responsibilities**

**Operational Management (60%)**

- Coordinate distributed data curation services across a network of institutions.
- Coordinate regular virtual DCN Curator check-in meetings.
- Resolve questions or connect DCN Curators to additional support or resources.
- Facilitate onboarding of new curators with curation workflow.
- Assist curators with a knowledgebase of curation best practices and maintain internal procedure guidelines, common curation issues, and recommend solutions.
- In coordination with Planning Committee, participate in the planning of DCN’s annual meeting.
- Lead annual reporting processing.
- Work alongside committees and working groups to promote and communicate about the DCN’s accomplishments and initiatives, host webinars, and contribute and maintain website content.
- Provide up-to-date information on progress to DCN Governance Board on a regular basis.
- Liaise with DCN interest groups and committees.

**Leadership (40%)**

- Lead community-building efforts that facilitate interaction between DCN members.
- Work closely with the DCN Governance Board and Executive Committee to ensure organizational collective decision-making and transparency.
- Facilitate organizational planning and assessment, such as program evaluation and strategic planning.
- Maintain awareness of the evolving data curation and open scholarship landscape.
- In coordination with the University of Minnesota Libraries, manage and monitor the DCN budget and membership agreements and make recommendations to the Governance Board.
- Collaborate on presentations for DCN-related projects, initiatives, and research topics at national conferences and professional meetings.
- Facilitate seeking of appropriate grant opportunities; serve as primary investigator when warranted.

**Qualifications**

**Required**

- BA/BS degree plus at least eight years of experience, or master’s degree plus at least six years of experience.
- Demonstrated understanding of the research lifecycle and data management principles.
- Demonstrated commitment to creating a work environment that include diverse perspectives and experiences.
- Demonstrated experience in written communication and project management.
- Demonstrated ability to work cross-institutionally in a service-oriented, virtual, and collaboration-intensive environment.

**Preferred**

- Master’s degree in Library/Information Science from an ALA-accredited institution (or international equivalent) or advanced degree in a research-data-intensive related discipline by the time of appointment/position start.
- Experience curating datasets for a data repository.
- Understanding of trends in academic research support and expertise in providing research lifecycle support, including data sharing.
- Knowledge of data repositories, preservation, and curation concepts and their application.
- Experience with writing progress and/or annual reports read by multiple audiences.
- Experience with community management, community building, and/or facilitation

**Benefits**

Please visit the [Office of Human Resources](https://z.umn.edu/BenefitsSummaries) website for more information regarding benefit eligibility.

The University offers a comprehensive benefits package that includes:

- Competitive wages, paid holidays, and generous time off
- Continuous learning opportunities through professional training and degree-seeking programs supported by the [Regents Tuition Benefit Program](https://z.umn.edu/RTBP)
- Low-cost medical, dental, and pharmacy plans
- Healthcare and dependent care flexible spending accounts
- University HSA contributions
- Disability and employer-paid life insurance
- Employee wellbeing program
- Excellent retirement plans with employer contribution
- [Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF)](https://studentaid.gov/manage-loans/forgiveness-cancellation/public-service) opportunity
- Financial counseling services
- Employee Assistance Program with eight sessions of counseling at no cost
- [Employee Transit Pass](http://z.umn.edu/etp) with free or reduced rates in the Twin Cities metro area

**About the University of Minnesota, Twin Cities (UMTC)**

The University of Minnesota, Twin Cities (UMTC), is among the largest public research universities in the country, offering undergraduate, graduate, and professional students a multitude of opportunities for study and research. Located at the heart of one of the nation's most vibrant, diverse metropolitan communities, students on the campuses in Minneapolis and St. Paul benefit from extensive partnerships with world-renowned health centers, international corporations, government agencies, and arts, nonprofit, and public service organizations.

**Salary**

$90,000 - $93,000; depending on education/qualifications/experience

**Job Location**

Twin Cities, MN
