+++
title = "Data Specialist"
employer = "University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill"
employerurl = "https://unc.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://unc.peopleadmin.com/postings/305170"
postdate = "2025-08-18"
archivedate = "2025-11-05"
draft = "false"
+++

**Data Specialist**

\[two year time-limited position for a grant project\]

The University Libraries at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill seeks a **Data Specialist** to join our Digital Research Services team.

 

Reporting to the Data Analysis Librarian, the Data Specialist at the UNC-Chapel Hill University Libraries will provide artificial intelligence (AI) and data support for a project funded by the Mellon Foundation called On the Books: AI-Assisted Archives. Previous phases of this project created textual datasets of Jim Crow-era session laws from North Carolina, South Carolina, and Virginia and used machine learning to identify likely Jim Crow laws. The next phase of the project will expand this work to include the state of Texas and will endeavor to identify both Jim Crow and Juan Crow laws. Additionally, the project will investigate broadly the potential use of various applications of artificial intelligence for archival research. Examples include creating text corpora from historical legal documents, generating descriptions of photograph collections, and performing handwritten-character recognition (HCR) on archival documents.

The Data Specialist will be a member of the Digital Research Services department at the University Libraries as well as a member of the On the Books project team. The On the Books project team will use code and AI tools to create corpora and metadata and use machine learning to identify Jim Crow and Juan Crow laws. The Data Specialist will collaborate with scholars and special collections team members to ensure the work is applied appropriately for legal and historical contexts. The project team is committed to mentorship and maintaining a growth mindset. This is an excellent, time-limited opportunity for someone to develop their skills in coding and AI.

**Qualifications**

**Required**

- An advanced degree in Information Science, Data Science, Statistics, Computer Science, or related field.
- Proficiency working with unstructured data in Python and/or R.
- Demonstrated advanced data skills, including data cleaning/wrangling/normalization, using regular expressions, and reshaping/merging data.
- Proficiency using tools and programming libraries to support text analysis.
- Some exposure to generative AI and a strong interest in learning more. 
- Experience working effectively with a team to plan and complete projects.
- Detail oriented with excellent communication skills.

**Preferred**

- Experience using Python and/or R and relevant libraries for working with images, natural language processing, and working with application programming interfaces (APIs).
- Knowledgeable about AI, including prompt engineering.
- Experience using version control.
- Experience developing technical documentation.
- Experience working with data for projects in the social sciences and/or humanities.
- Experience using AI tools for processing data.
- Experience in building, training, evaluating, and tuning predictive models.

**The University and The Libraries**

The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill is the country’s oldest state university. UNC Chapel Hill has an enrollment of approximately 29,000 students, employs more than 3,500 members of the faculty, and offers 69 doctoral degrees as well as professional degrees in medicine, social work, information science, and law. 

The University Libraries aspires to be an intellectual and creative partner in the mission of the University, the success of every Tar Heel, and the vitality of our state.

The largest academic research library in the southeastern United States, the University Libraries at UNC-Chapel Hill includes eight library locations, 10 million volumes, over 250 employees, and more than 180 student workers and hosts 2 million visitors annually.

The University Libraries serves campus and broader communities that reflect the socioeconomic, ethnic, and religious diversity of the state of North Carolina, and we maintain a welcoming, inclusive, and open educational and workplace climate for all. We strive to create an environment of respect and collaboration where vision and innovation can flourish. Learn more about our Strategic Framework -- including our pillars, values, and priorities -- by visiting [https://library.unc.edu/about/strategic-framework/](https://library.unc.edu/about/strategic-framework/). 

**The Region**

The Triangle region is one of the most desirable places to live and work in North America and offers its residents a wide array of recreational, cultural, and intellectual activities. The mountains or the seashore are less than a half day’s drive from Chapel Hill.

**Salary and Benefits**

This is a twelve-month, time-limited, at-will appointment. Standard state benefits include annual leave, sick leave, and State or optional retirement. The salary range for the Data Specialist position begins at $51,500. The University Libraries intend to hire at a minimum of $74,000, with a salary commensurate with experience and qualifications.

**Job Location**

Chapel Hill, NC
