+++
title = "David & Nancy Petrone GIS Librarian"
employer = "University of Oregon"
employerurl = "https://sagepub.com/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.sagepub.com/jobs/5215127-executive-editor"
postdate = "2025-01-14"
archivedate = "2025-01-14"
draft = "false"
+++

**David & Nancy Petrone GIS Librarian**

**Department Summary**

​​The University of Oregon Libraries is an essential partner in the University’s educational, research, and public service mission. With five locations on the Eugene campus, and branches at UO Portland and at the Oregon Institute of Marine Biology, the Libraries offers many flexible, service- and technology-rich environments for our users’ research and learning needs. The UO Libraries is committed to supporting and enhancing the diversity of the university community, providing a culturally inclusive environment where diversity of thought and expression is valued and respected, and disrupting systemic inequalities. With a focus on equity in service, we strive to create a powerful learning community, a welcoming space where faculty, students, and patrons of all ages and cultural and ethnic backgrounds can access the information necessary to achieve their personal and professional goals. Our mission is to actively support the student learning experience, enable the creation and stewardship of knowledge, and contribute to advancements in teaching, research, scholarship, and public service. We value intellectual freedom, user-centered service, evidence-based approaches, transparency, innovation, teamwork, diversity, and integrity.

​The University of Oregon Libraries is a member of the Orbis Cascade Alliance, the Big Ten Academic Alliance, SPARC, Center for Research Libraries ,DuraSpace, the Council on Library and Information Resources, Coalition of Networked Information, EDUCAUSE, and other major organizations. For more information about the UO Libraries, go to [https://library.uoregon.edu/about-us](https://library.uoregon.edu/about-us).

​**About Data Services:**

​The UO Libraries Data Services unit makes data skills, statistics, programming, cartography resources, and data management accessible to faculty, students, and staff through one-on-one consultations, workshops, and classroom visits. Data Services is part of the Department of Open Research (DOOR), which supports research data management and reproducibility, open-access publishing, open educational resources and affordability, the institutional repository, data archiving, and public digital scholarship. Data Services engages researchers at every stage of their career, helping patrons build the skills and competencies required to implement open science and reproducible research practices.

​The University of Oregon is an equal opportunity, affirmative action institution committed to cultural diversity and compliance with the ADA. The University encourages all qualified individuals to apply and does not discriminate on the basis of any protected status, including veteran and disability status. The University is committed to providing reasonable accommodations to applicants and employees with disabilities.​

**Position Summary**

​​Reporting to the Head of Data Services, the David & Nancy Petrone GIS Librarian supports student success through the development of interdisciplinary GIS (geographic information systems) and spatial data-oriented instruction and research support. The librarian develops and delivers course-integrated, extracurricular, and (potentially) credit-bearing instruction.

​The David & Nancy Petrone GIS Librarian participates in relevant professional development activities and organizations to stay current with trends and practices in the field; provides technical support and training in the use of tools and workflows to support GIS applications; develops skill in and applies pedagogical best practices in data and computational instruction; works with library colleagues and researchers to identify appropriate data, tools, platforms, and resources for geospatial projects; and collaborates with colleagues across the library and the university to develop outreach strategies and partnerships.

​This position accelerates the university's research ambitions through proactive engagement with stakeholders across the University to develop, propose, and contribute to strategic research and teaching projects. These projects align with the Libraries’ strategic objectives and departmental focus on spatial data management, public scholarship, and engagement with GIS technologies.

​This position contributes to the University’s goals regarding equity and inclusion. We are aware that some people are less likely to apply for jobs unless they meet every preferred qualification in the job description. We are most interested in finding the best candidate for the job and recognize that a successful candidate may come from a less traditional career trajectory, such as having skills and abilities gained outside a classroom context, or an equivalent skill set. We encourage you to apply, even if you don’t believe you meet every one of our preferred qualifications.​

**Minimum Requirements**

**Minimum Qualifications for the Rank of Assistant Librarian:**

- Master’s Degree in Library/Information Science from an ALA-accredited institution or equivalent international terminal degree

-OR-

- PhD

**Minimum qualifications for rank of Associate Librarian:**

- Master’s Degree in Library/Information Science from an ALA-accredited institution or equivalent international terminal degree AND
- At least six (6) years post-MLIS experience

-OR-

- PhD AND
- At least six (6) years post-degree experience

**Minimum qualifications for rank of Senior Librarian:**

- Master’s Degree in Library/Information Science from an ALA-accredited institution or equivalent international terminal degree AND
- At least Twelve (12) years post-MLIS experience

-OR-

- PhD AND
- At least Twelve (12) years post-degree experience

**Professional Competencies**

- Demonstrated interest in continually learning new skills and adapting to new technologies.
- Ability to create, process, organize, use, and analyze spatial data.
- Knowledge of critical issues regarding GIS research best practices, research data lifecycle, and scholarly communication issues.
- Familiarity with basic data cleaning and analysis in Python, R, SPSS, Stata, or another statistical programming environment.
- Ability to work independently and in teams in a flexible work environment.
- Demonstrated interest in outreach and public services.
- Demonstrated interest in teaching, library instruction, or technical training.
- Ability to support and enhance a diverse learning and working environment.

**Preferred Qualifications**

- Experience using industry-standard GIS software such as ArcGIS or qGIS in an academic or professional setting.
- Degree or advanced training in geography, data science, informatics, or other relevant discipline.

**Salary**

Salary ranges

Assistant Librarian: $55,000 - $68,000

Associate Librarian: $63,000 - $76,000

Senior Librarian: $78,000 - $92,000

**Job Location**

Eugene, OR
