+++
title = "Manager of Commons Events & Programming"
employer = "Princeton University"
employerurl = "https://princeton.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://main-princeton.icims.com/jobs/20895/manager-of-commons-events-%26-programming/job"
postdate = "2025-06-14"
archivedate = "2025-08-08"
draft = "false"
+++

**Manager of Commons Events & Programming**

Princeton University Library seeks a Manager of Commons Events and Programming to design the patron experience at the Commons Library, spearhead the development of a robust workshop and events schedule, and coordinate the day-to-day building and public service operations for the space. As the lead for event and program planning of the Commons Library, the Manager is responsible for coordinating outreach and patron services to develop a suite of programs designed to promote engagement with PUL services and resources.

PUL is one of the world’s leading research libraries. It employs a dedicated and knowledgeable staff of more than 300 professional and support staff working in a large central library, 9 specialized branches, and 3 storage facilities. The Library supports a diverse community of 5,200 undergraduates, 2,700 graduate students, 1,200 faculty members, and many visiting scholars.  Its holdings include more than 7 million printed volumes, 5 million manuscripts, 2 million non-print items, and extensive collections of digital text, data, and images.  Further information: [http://library.princeton.edu](http://library.princeton.edu).

**Responsibilities**

Reporting to the Assistant University Librarian for Science and Engineering, the Manager of Commons Events and Programming builds relationships across Princeton University and communities beyond campus to develop programming, including through digital platforms, with a goal of engaging with visitors and researchers in and around the Commons Library. In addition, the Manager will engage with communities to enable opportunities for collaboration and engagement outside of the physical library spaces.

In support of managing day to day operations, the Manager is responsible for hiring, training, and supervising student workers and other staff as needed. This position provides leadership to the daily operations in the areas of building management (events, spaces, signage, facilities requests), collection maintenance, and supply purchasing. This position collaborates with the public services coordinators of Firestone and branch libraries in support of developing and implementing policies pertaining to day to day operations.

**Qualifications**

**Essential**

- Bachelor's degree  
- 3 years experience planning workshops, events, and other activities in a public service setting; demonstrated commitment to the provision of high-quality public service; prior supervisory experience (student workers)
- Excellent interpersonal and organizational skills and a high degree of professionalism and initiative
- Ability to think creatively, work independently, and function effectively as part of a team
- Excellent written and oral communication skills
- Ability to handle multiple, varied, and competing priorities, projects, and tasks; both independently and collaboratively, in a dynamic environment
- Willingness to work flexible hours in order to accommodate programs and trainings
- Demonstrated ability to work with a diverse range of scholars, students, and other patrons with varying levels of experience
- Experience and comfort with technology and demonstrated willingness to learn new technologies

**Preferred**

- Master's degree with 3 years relative experience
- Work experience with academic research libraries

Princeton University is an [Equal Opportunity](https://rrr.princeton.edu/eop) employer and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to age, race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, disability status, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law.

The University considers factors such as (but not limited to) scope and responsibilities of the position, candidate's qualifications, work experience, education/training, key skills, market, collective bargaining agreements as applicable, and organizational considerations when extending an offer. The posted salary range represents the University's good faith and reasonable estimate for a full-time position; salaries for part-time positions are pro-rated accordingly.

If the salary range on the posted position shows an hourly rate, this is the baseline; the actual hourly rate may be higher, depending on the position and factors listed above.

The University also offers a comprehensive benefit program to eligible employees. Please see this [link](https://hr.princeton.edu/benefits-overview-prospective-candidates) for more information.

**Salary**

$87,000 to $96,000

**Job Location**

Princeton, NJ
