+++
title = "Data Services Specialist"
employer = "Georgia State University"
employerurl = "https://gsu.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://facultycareers.gsu.edu/postings/5642"
postdate = "2025-07-03"
archivedate = "2025-08-08"
draft = "false"
+++

**Data Services Specialist**

This position is part of the [Research Data Services (RDS) Department](https://lib.gsu.edu/data) of professionals with expertise in supporting data analysis tools & methods, data visualization, finding data & statistics, data collection, and data cleaning & management across academic disciplines (details at [lib.gsu.edu/data](https://lib.gsu.edu/data)).

The University Library’s Research Data Services (RDS) Department seeks an intellectually curious and innovative colleague to join us as a Data Services Specialist. The RDS Department’s array of support services directly bolsters the University’s strategic areas of [Innovating Research, Scholarship & Creative Activity](https://strategic.gsu.edu/2023-2033/innovating-research-scholarship-and-creative-activity/), [Student Success 2.0](https://strategic.gsu.edu/2023-2033/student-success-2-0/), and [Beyond College to Career](https://strategic.gsu.edu/2023-2033/beyond-college-to-career/). _If you are passionate about igniting a passion for data in others, this position is for you!_

We welcome a colleague who is eager to collaborate with campus researchers on their data-related projects and to enrich data literacy teaching and learning efforts across campus. The Data Services Specialist will:

- Assist university students, staff, and faculty in the use of data software, coding languages, and tools (SPSS primarily; SAS secondarily)
- Support campus researchers in finding, evaluating, wrangling, cleaning, analyzing, and visualizing data
- Provide individual and small-group consultations, live workshops, and course- embedded instruction in data resources, tools, and methods
- Develop asynchronous virtual learning strategies, including contributing to the GSU Data Ready! Badges digital micro-credentials program (details at [lib.gsu.edu/data-ready](https://lib.gsu.edu/data-ready))
- Work with students at all levels in learning the data literacy tools and skills needed to succeed in college and future careers
- Collaborate with other members of the home department ([Research Data Services](https://lib.gsu.edu/data)) and other relevant University Library units in serving a variety of Georgia State University colleges, schools, departments, and programs

The position serves as a member of the library faculty (12-month, non-tenure track), holds faculty rank, and is expected to participate in research, professional development, and service activities as outlined in the University Library’s faculty guidelines. The library is committed to providing exceptional professional development opportunities for its employees. While not required, employees are welcome to further their careers by earning an additional advanced degree, and, in most cases, tuition assistance is available.

**Required Experience**

This position is eligible for hiring at the ranks listed below. The minimum required experience at each rank is noted below.

- Librarian Instructor – no experience required.
- Librarian Assistant Professor – A minimum 3 of years experience
- Librarian Associate Professor – A minimum 7 of years experience

**Required Education**

- Master’s degree or higher in a relevant field

**Preferred Qualifications/Experience**

- Ability in IBM SPSS Statistics software (both syntax commands and point-and-click)
- Ability in SAS, or commitment and ability to learn SAS in the first year
- Familiarity with data methods commonly used in quantitative research across multiple disciplines and a commitment to developing additional methodological knowledge and skills
- Ability and enthusiasm for teaching data tools and methods to university researchers across multiple levels and disciplines via multiple modes (in-person, online, group settings, one-on-one)
- Experience providing both in-person and online instruction in group and one-on-one settings
- Experience or familiarity with social sciences and health research methods
- Interest and ability to grow skills in other data-related areas, tools, and methods

If you feel that you do not meet these preferred qualifications, please do not let a confidence gap stop you from applying. Sometimes a list of preferred qualifications can miss the elements that would most strengthen our team. We value the many different skills which make all of us unique.

**Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities**

- Knowledge of trends and new developments in teaching, student learning, and student success in higher education
- Knowledge of trends and new developments in research and the use of technology in delivering library and information services in higher education
- Excellent communication, presentation, and interpersonal skills

**About GSU**

Georgia State University is a national model for innovation and opening opportunities for all, among the top five most innovative by U.S. News & World Report, ranked 1st among public universities in undergraduate teaching, the number 1 nonprofit university to award bachelor’s degrees to African American students, 4th in the country for its first-year student experience, and highly ranked for enabling the social and economic mobility of its students. Among the most diverse universities in the nation, Georgia State opens global perspectives as the number 1 U.S. public university sending African American students to study abroad.

A regional gateway to higher education, the five suburban Perimeter College campuses provide more than 30 associate degree pathways. The downtown Atlanta campus offers more than 250 degree programs in 100 fields of study at the undergraduate, graduate and first-professional degree levels.

With five university-wide research centers and numerous centers and institutes at the college and school levels, Georgia State’s interdisciplinary, dynamic and productive research enterprises address major health and societal challenges. It is one of only 146 universities with an R1 designation from the [Carnegie Foundation](https://www.carnegiefoundation.org, an honor reserved for the nation’s most active research institutions. Outgoing research expenditures have doubled in the last decade and topped $1.2 billion over the last six years, an indication of the University’s rapid research growth.

Georgia State is vital to the regional economy, with a more than $2.9 billion economic impact, and is also a vital part of Atlanta’s vibrant arts and entertainment community, with highly regarded programs in music, art, creative writing and film, the Rialto Center for the Arts, and the Creative Media Industries Institute that contributes to innovation and the workforce for interactive media and media entrepreneurship.

General information on faculty roles and responsibilities can be obtained from the [Faculty Handbook](https://faculty.gsu.edu/faculty-handbook/) and the [Office of Faculty Affairs website](https://faculty.gsu.edu/). All faculty at Georgia State are, as part of their essential job duties, expected to: (1) be physically present on-campus as needed to contribute to Georgia State’s in-person educational experience, and (2) be able to teach in each of the following instructional modalities – in-person, online, or blended/hybrid – as determined by their Department Chair or Dean.

The University Library at the main Atlanta Campus provides one of the most attractive, open, and inviting educational facilities in the Southeast. With over 1.25 million annual visitors, the library is an integral part of the University community. The library is a valued partner within the campus community, offering a modern, inviting, and centralized facility supporting teaching and research with extensive collections and outstanding assistance. Learn more about the University Library at
[lib.gsu.edu](https://lib.gsu.edu).

**Salary**

$68,900 – $81,750 

Appointment at faculty rank (Instructor/Assistant/Associate Professor). Twelve-month assignment, faculty rank, non-tenure track

**Job Location**

Atlanta, GA
