+++
title = "Data Curation Librarian"
employer = "University of Minnesota"
employerurl = "https://umn.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://hr.myu.umn.edu/jobs/ext/369199"
postdate = "2025-08-19"
archivedate = "2025-11-05"
draft = "false"
+++

**Data Curation Librarian**

The Data Curation Librarian will be part of the Open Research and Publishing (ORP) department. ORP serves the research needs of the University of Minnesota faculty, staff, and graduate students. The department provides services in three key areas: Publishing Services, Research Information Management (RIM), and Research Data Management & Curation. ORP is also the proud home of the Data Curation Network (DCN), a collaborative initiative dedicated to advancing data curation practices and building community among data professionals.

The Data Curation Librarian is responsible for scientific data curation for the Data Repository of the University of Minnesota (DRUM) and for supporting research data services' education, engagement, and networking. This position will work closely with the Research Data Services Team, including the Research Data Services Lead/Director of DRUM, Research Data Education and Outreach Librarian, and data curators to support, advise on, and implement data services and education to faculty, students, staff, and other liaison librarians.

This position will also support efforts to ensure the University of Minnesota Libraries continue to be engaged in and informed by national and international best practices around data management, data curation, and data ethics.

**Key Responsibilities**

- Curate and preserve research data sets to the DRUM, following established procedures and practices.
- Support and contribute to the planning and delivery of research data training initiatives.
- Assist researchers with data documentation, file organization, and the creation of data management plans to meet funder and institutional requirements.
- Maintain curation workflows and documentation.
- Support advocacy efforts for research data services and policies, working closely with the RDS team and campus stakeholders.
- Participate in collaborations with campus units and national networks, to share best practices and promote ethical data stewardship.

This position is in a hybrid work environment with periodic on-campus meetings, workshops and trainings. It is a full-time, 12 month, continuous appointment track academic professional position with probationary appointment at the Assistant Librarian rank with the potential for appointment to a Librarian rank. The position includes establishing a record of visible active contribution to the Libraries, the institution, and/or the broader community and contribution to the advancement of librarianship through visible professional activity.

**Qualifications**

**Required**

- Master's degree in Library/Information Science from an ALA-accredited institution (or international equivalent) or advanced degree in a related discipline by the time of appointment/position start.
- Experience curating datasets for a data repository.
- Experience teaching in a research environment.
- Demonstrated familiarity with the research lifecycle and working with researchers on data management principles and data management plans.
- Demonstrated knowledge of and commitment to the benefits of diversity and inclusion throughout an organization.

**Preferred**

- Proficiency in two or more programming languages.
- Familiarity with curating human participant data.
- Familiarity with CARE principles and indigenous data governance.

**Benefits**

Please visit the [Office of Human Resources](https://z.umn.edu/BenefitsSummaries) website for more information regarding benefit eligibility.

The University offers a comprehensive benefits package that includes:

- Competitive wages, paid holidays, and generous time off
- Continuous learning opportunities through professional training and degree-seeking programs supported by the [Regents Tuition Benefit Program](https://z.umn.edu/RTBP)
- Low-cost medical, dental, and pharmacy plans
- Healthcare and dependent care flexible spending accounts
- University HSA contributions
- Disability and employer-paid life insurance
- Employee wellbeing program
- Excellent retirement plans with employer contribution
- [Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF)](https://studentaid.gov/manage-loans/forgiveness-cancellation/public-service) opportunity
- Financial counseling services
- Employee Assistance Program with eight sessions of counseling at no cost
- [Employee Transit Pass](http://z.umn.edu/etp) with free or reduced rates in the Twin Cities metro area

**About the University of Minnesota, Twin Cities (UMTC)**

The University of Minnesota, Twin Cities (UMTC), is among the largest public research universities in the country, offering undergraduate, graduate, and professional students a multitude of opportunities for study and research. Located at the heart of one of the nation's most vibrant, diverse metropolitan communities, students on the campuses in Minneapolis and St. Paul benefit from extensive partnerships with world-renowned health centers, international corporations, government agencies, and arts, nonprofit, and public service organizations.

**Salary**

$61,000 - $75,000; depending on education/qualifications/experience

**Job Location**

Twin Cities, MN
