+++
title = "Computational Sciences Librarian"
employer = "Princeton University"
employerurl = "https://princeton.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://puwebp.princeton.edu/AcadHire/apply/application.xhtml?listingId=41082"
postdate = "2025-12-11"
archivedate = "2026-02-25"
draft = "false"
+++

**Computational Sciences Librarian**

Princeton University Library (PUL) seeks a creative and dedicated librarian focused on research data, computational science, and providing consultation and instruction on AI literacies, including responsible use and implementation of AI and related technologies in research and scholarship. Reporting to the Head of Science and Engineering Teaching and Research Services, the Computational Sciences Librarian is part of the STEM team in the Data, Research, and Teaching Services division. The role supports students, faculty, and staff in Computer Science, Electrical and Computer Engineering, Princeton Language and Intelligence, the Princeton Center for Statistics and Machine Learning, and the greater STEM community.

This position works closely with librarians and information specialists, guiding computational methods, LLM use cases, and data-intensive research workflows. Liaison responsibilities may include shared or backup support in other areas of STEM or advanced data services.

Core responsibilities include collection development, instruction, outreach, reference, and scholarly communications in computer science and electrical and computer engineering. This position assists patrons at all levels, from first-year undergraduates through faculty members and research staff. This position collaborates with units across PUL and represents PUL in professional contexts.

PUL is one of the world's leading research libraries, with over 300 staff and several specialized branches, supporting a diverse community of 5,500 undergraduates, 3,100 graduate students, 1,200 faculty members, and many visiting scholars. Further information: [http://library.princeton.edu](http://library.princeton.edu)

**Required Qualifications:**

 - Masters in Library Science or equivalent educational background in fields such as Computer Science, Mathematics, Engineering, or Statistics
 - Strong research skills, especially for computer science and engineering research in a variety of library databases and library-related software platforms.
 - Excellent interpersonal skills, project and time management skills, and the ability to work collaboratively and collegially with a diverse group of scholars and colleagues.
 - Experience with instruction, research consultations.
 - Comfort with rapidly changing expectations and guidelines for library services.
 - Familiarity with machine learning and AI applications.
 - At least 3 years of experience is required.

**Preferred Qualifications:**

 - Expertise with science and engineering librarianship, and expectations for research support.
 - Experience with collection development.

The work location for this position is in-person on campus at Princeton University.

**Salary**

$90,000 - $105,000

**Job Location**

Princeton, NJ
