+++
title = "Research Data Solutions Architect (DISSC)"
employer = "Yale University"
employerurl = "https://yale.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.yale.edu/us/en/job/YUCYUHUS130845WDEXTERNALENUS/Research-Data-Solutions-Architect-DISSC"
postdate = "2025-11-25"
archivedate = "2026-02-25"
draft = "false"
+++

**Research Data Solutions Architect (DISSC)**

 The Data Intensive Social Science Center (DISSC) at Yale provides Yale’s social scientists with a world class, user-centered, support organization to ensure that Yale social science research remains at the frontiers of each social science discipline.  DISSC, working with its partners throughout the Yale community, supports the entire research lifecycle including the acquisition, secure storage and management, analysis, and dissemination of existing and novel data resources transforming social science research.

The architect will serve as part of our research support unit while specializing in data engineering and data architecture tasks necessary to support the ingestion, management, curation and sharing of data used by teams across the university.  Yale seeks to build automated research data pipelines, along with centralized storage architectures (e.g. datalakes, lake houses etc.) to efficiently ingest data and to appropriately and securely share across campus. In this role, the architect will work closely with colleagues at Yale Library and at other groups to develop solutions both on-premises and in the cloud. The goal is to enhance the use of these licensed and procured data to provide cutting edge insights across Yale.

This is an incredible opportunity for an experienced data professional who is curious to learn and is motivated by the opportunity to build and support this organization. The architect will be part of an integrated team sharing expertise and learning from one another to support cutting-edge research. The ideal candidate is a knowledgeable data enthusiast interested in exploring new interdisciplinary data resources and working to learn and implement new data architectures and systems including cloud and high-performance computing environments. This person also has experience developing or delivering research services in an academic setting, understands the social science research process, and has skills and experience in the use of various tools for information access, management, analysis, and presentation. They must enjoy working both independently and cooperatively with others in the DISSC research support unit, on multiple projects involving varieties of data sources, customers, and analytical tools.

**Required Skills and Abilities**

- Experience in designing and managing large-scale data pipelines and data storage solutions, with an understanding of best practices for handling sensitive research data.
- Experience in data modeling, ETL processes, and cloud data platforms, with exposure to issues in ensuring data integrity, security, and compliance with relevant regulations and standards.
- Understanding of research data workflows and academic/scientific research requirements. Knowledge of social science research methods and ability to translate research needs into technical requirements.
- Strong organizational skills, attention to detail, and ability to prioritize and manage multiple assignments simultaneously. Excellent documentation skills and ability to create technical specifications
- Strong interpersonal skills, communication skills, and the ability to interact well with faculty, staff, and research partners internally and externally.


**Preferred Skills and Abilities**

- Experience building data products for research (Social Sciences) or academic institutions
- Knowledge of metadata management and data catalog tools
- Familiarity with machine learning workflows and model deployment pipelines
- Contributions to open-source data engineering projects

This position is primarily remote, with occasional on-site requirements a couple times per month. 

**Principal Responsibilities**

- Consult to faculty and researchers regarding their projects and needs related to data infrastructure and data-related processes. Discuss suggested project designs solutions. 
- Work with procurement and legal teams to assist researchers to locate and acquire data resources.
- Aid with maintenance and management of data through all phases of research lifecycle; review progress and assure accuracy and compliance of data being acquired and stored.
- Provide technical support and computing assistance to faculty and researchers in the university’s social science departments and schools.
- Implement statistical methods for descriptive and causal designs and learn new research methods as needed.
- Develop archiving and dissemination solutions for research across disciplines.
- May perform other duties as assigned.

**Required Education and Experience**

Bachelor's Degree in a related field and four years of related experience in academic or scientific research support or an equivalent combination of education and experience.

**Salary**

$68,000.00 - $120,500.00


**Job Location**

New Haven, CT
