+++
title = "Librarian for Journalism and Media, Culture and Communication"
employer = "New York University"
employerurl = "https://www.nyu.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://apply.interfolio.com/160444"
postdate = "2025-01-23"
archivedate = "2025-02-06"
draft = "false"
+++

**Librarian for Journalism and Media, Culture and Communication**

The New York University (NYU) Division of Libraries is seeking a Librarian for Journalism and  Media, Culture and Communication situated in the Libraries’ Research & Research Services subdivision. This tenure-track faculty librarian supports research, scholarship, teaching and learning, and practice in the subject areas of journalism, communication, and media studies across the university. Building and sustaining strong relationships that foreground equity and inclusion, they serve as the liaison to the Arthur L. Carter Journalism Institute (Arts & Science) and the Department of Media, Culture and Communication (Steinhardt School of Culture, Education, and Human Development). 

The Librarian for Journalism and Media, Culture and Communication is intellectually curious, willing to learn, and responsive to the needs of the communities they support. They will:

- build and maintain our research collections with an understanding of the complexities around collecting both analog and digital news, and audiovisual media;
- foster proactive and agile outreach and communication practices;
- provide research support directly to students and researchers, building on an existing robust, high-volume instruction and consultation program, with a focus on scale and innovation for future growth; 
- act as a connector and contributor to our current public and research services programs, helping to support both standard and new methods of research, scholarly inquiry, and practice, particularly those necessitated by new and emerging media; 
- take the lead in promoting vital 21st-century competencies like media literacy, visual literacy, data literacy, and AI literacy in scholars and practitioners in the fields of journalism, communication, and media studies.

This librarian works across organizational boundaries in a dynamic and highly collaborative environment. They work closely with colleagues across NYU Libraries globally, including our corps of 40 liaison librarians serving the humanities, social sciences, and sciences. As a member of the Society, Culture, and Global Perspectives department within the Research and Research Services subdivision, they work particularly closely with social sciences and area studies liaisons who share a focus on interdisciplinarity and global perspectives. Beyond fellow liaison librarians, the Librarian for Journalism and Media, Culture and Communication collaborates closely with library colleagues in teaching and learning, collection development, data services, metadata creation, and scholarly communication. Outside NYU, they represent the Division of Libraries in professional consortia and associations locally and nationally.

**Research**

Faculty librarians pursue their own active research, contributing their expertise, experiences, creative or artistic outputs, and investigations to build new knowledge and make cultural contributions. The person in this position has wide latitude in determining their own research agenda in their chosen area(s).

 

**NYU Cluster Hiring Initiative**

NYU Libraries is participating in the [NYU Faculty Cluster Hiring Initiative](https://cfa.hosting.nyu.edu/recruitment/faculty-cluster-initiative/) to build a more diverse faculty community by seeking to recruit, welcome, and support new library faculty working across the Division on timely themes of social importance, such as Inequality and Anti-racism, Population Health and Health Equity, Open Science and the Public Good, and Urban Environments and Politics. This particular position is part of our Centering Underrepresented Voices: Anti-Racist Practices in Libraries and Archives cluster, which seeks to center underrepresented communities' voices by bringing in new collections in all formats, adopting and contributing to anti-racist descriptive and metadata practices to support the discovery and use of these collections, and promulgating engagement and research services that draw on and support the growth of new knowledge. [For full details about the Libraries cluster hiring initiative, see this link](https://library.nyu.edu/about/who-we-are/career-opportunities/nyu-faculty-cluster-hiring-initiative/).

**About New York University Libraries**

Libraries at New York University serve the school’s 60,000 students and faculty and contain more than 6.7 million volumes. The Libraries supports NYU’s vision to become the first true Global Network University by collaborating with and providing services to our 11 global academic centers and our “portal campuses” in Abu Dhabi and Shanghai. New York University Libraries is a member of the Association of Research Libraries, the OCLC Research Library Partnership, and the HathiTrust. The Libraries participate in a variety of consortia and collaborate closely with Columbia University Libraries and the New York Public Library through the Manhattan Research Library Consortium.

The Division of Libraries values diversity among its faculty, is committed to building a culturally diverse intellectual community and strongly encourages applications from members of underrepresented communities. We are proud of our organizational culture and are committed​ ​to​ ​building​ ​and sustaining​​ a ​diverse,​ ​inclusive,​ ​and equitable​ ​organization​ that supports a sense of belonging for the staff and communities we serve. For more information, view NYU Libraries Strategic Priorities, [https://library.nyu.edu/about/general/strategic-priorities/](https://library.nyu.edu/about/general/strategic-priorities/) and Mission and Values, [https://library.nyu.edu/about/general/values/](https://library.nyu.edu/about/general/values/)

**Qualifications**

**Required:**

- Minimum one graduate degree (Master’s level or higher), conferred by start date, for consideration 
   - A second graduate degree will be required to be eligible for tenure. One of the two graduate degrees must be an ALA-accredited MLS/MLIS or equivalent.
- Study, training, and/or practice in the field of journalism, communication, or media studies
- Understanding of the information landscape that surrounds news media collecting and its impact on collection development for research libraries
- Experience delivering instruction, such as workshops, webinars, and/or classroom teaching
- Experience providing public service and research support
- Demonstrated commitment to inclusion, diversity, belonging, equity, and accessibility (IDBEA)

 

**Preferred:**

- A graduate degree in a field related to journalism, communication, or media studies
- Experience finding and using public records
- Familiarity with issues around copyright, particularly the application of fair use principles for academic and journalistic purposes

 

**Salary/Benefits:**

This position is open rank with faculty status, and includes an attractive benefits package, including five weeks of annual vacation. 

The typical beginning annual base salary for a faculty member joining the Division of Libraries as a Full Curator in the academic year 2024-2025 is $110,000.

The typical beginning annual base salary for a faculty member joining the Division of Libraries as an Associate Curator in the academic year 2024-2025 is $100,000.

The typical beginning annual base salary for a faculty member joining the Division of Libraries as an Assistant Curator in the academic year 2024-2025 is $90,000.

The typical beginning annual base salary for a faculty member joining the Division of Libraries as a Library Associate in the academic year 2024-2025 is $90,000.

**Job Location**

New York, NY
