+++
title = "Business and Social Sciences Librarian"
employer = "University of California, Berkeley"
employerurl = "https://berkeley.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://aprecruit.berkeley.edu/JPF04937"
postdate = "2025-06-17"
archivedate = "2025-08-08"
draft = "false"
+++

**Business and Social Sciences Librarian**

The University of California, Berkeley is seeking an experienced, collaborative, and service-oriented Business and Social Sciences Librarian to join the Library Social Sciences Division. The division supports world-class teaching and research in the social sciences, and provides innovative collection development and other user-focused services including data and information literacy, course-based instruction, and research support.

Position title: Associate Librarian-Librarian, Career Status or Potential Career Status

**The Environment**

The UC Berkeley Library is an internationally renowned research and teaching facility at one of the nation's premier public universities. A highly diverse and intellectually rich environment, Berkeley serves a campus community of 33,070 undergraduate students, 12,812 graduate students, and 1,525 faculty. The Library comprises 20 campus libraries, including the Doe Library, the Moffitt Library, The Bancroft Library, the C.V. Starr East Asian Library, and numerous subject specialty libraries. With a collection of more than 12 million volumes and a collections budget of over $15 million, the Library offers extensive resources in all formats and robust services to connect users with the collections and build their research skills. Discover more about our collections and services at the UC Berkeley Library website.

The Library’s Social Sciences Division is comprised of librarians, library career staff, and student library employees who collectively support the teaching and research needs of students and faculty in twelve social science departments within the College of Letters & Science, six professional schools, three International and Area Studies programs, and an array of Organized Research Units. The division oversees three subject specialty libraries: the Business Library, the Environmental Design Library, and the Social Research Library.

The Haas School of Business is one of the world’s top-ranked business schools and the second oldest in the United States. The School offers six degree programs: Undergraduate, Full-Time MBA, Evening & Weekend MBA, Executive MBA, Masters in Financial Engineering, and PhD. Haas fosters an inclusive culture with a commitment to four defining principles: Question the Status Quo, Confidence Without Attitude, Students Always, and Beyond Yourself. The Berkeley-Haas MBA provides experiential learning opportunities in global & cross-cultural business skills, innovation & entrepreneurship, and sustainability.

**Responsibilities**

The Business and Social Sciences Librarian reports to the head of the Library’s Social Sciences Division. Librarians in the Social Sciences Division establish strong relationships with faculty and students; conduct analysis and assessment of user needs; create collections of digital, print, and data resources; provide virtual and in-person research consultations; offer customized in-person and remote instruction; develop instructional materials in a variety of formats; and promote library resources and services to support Berkeley’s teaching and research through outreach, exhibits, and programming.

The Business and Social Sciences Librarian serves as a liaison to the Haas School of Business, providing collections and research support (including reference and instruction) for a diverse group of undergraduate students, graduate students, faculty, staff, and practitioners studying all aspects of management and finance. Research in these areas at UC Berkeley is highly interdisciplinary with a strong focus on entrepreneurship and sustainability. The incumbent collaborates with colleagues, including the Business Resource Librarian, to support researchers throughout UC Berkeley as a Library subject expert in company, industry, and financial market data.

The Business and Social Sciences Librarian, in collaboration with Library and Haas colleagues, actively builds, manages, and makes accessible collections that meet the research and learning needs of the campus community and align with the Library’s digitization priorities and the University of California Libraries’ shared print efforts. The collection primarily includes electronic resources and data sets, as well as monographs and serials acquired through approval plans and vendors. The incumbent analyzes researcher needs and resource use to inform collections decisions, negotiates with vendors, and works with Library colleagues to promote the legal use of online business collections.

The newly-renovated Thomas J. Long Business Library at Haas is an all-digital library featuring an information and computing center alongside a variety of quiet and collaborative study spaces. This librarian works closely with colleagues in the Social Sciences Division, the Office of Scholarly Communication and Information Policy, Library Data Services, and Haas to collectively shape services, projects, policies, and collections to enhance research and learning at the University. All UC Berkeley librarians are expected to participate in library-wide planning and governance, and work effectively in a shared decision-making environment. Advancement is partially based upon professional contributions beyond the primary assignment; the successful candidate will show evidence or promise of such contributions to the Library, campus, UC System, and profession.

The UC Berkeley Library is committed to supporting and encouraging respect and empathy, and nurturing a culture where all employees thrive. The Library seeks candidates who recognize and appreciate one another’s contributions, expertise, and accomplishments, and will strive to provide equitable access to a diverse set of collections and services. For more information, please see the UC Berkeley Library Statement of Values.

UC professional librarians are academic appointees and are represented by an exclusive bargaining agent, the University Council – American Federation of Teachers (UC-AFT). This position is in the bargaining unit. Librarians are entitled to appropriate professional development leave, vacation leave, sick leave, and all other benefits granted to non-faculty academic personnel. The University has an excellent retirement system and sponsors a variety of group health, dental, vision, and life insurance plans in addition to other benefits.

UC Berkeley Library Website: [http://www.lib.berkeley.edu/](http://www.lib.berkeley.edu/)

UC Berkeley Library statement of values: [https://www.lib.berkeley.edu/about/library-values](https://www.lib.berkeley.edu/about/library-values)

**Qualifications**

**Basic qualifications** (required at time of application)

- Advanced degree.

**Preferred qualifications**

- Master’s degree from an American Library Association (ALA) accredited institution program or equivalent degree.
- Knowledge of company, industry, and financial market data concepts and resources (including data platforms, business news, scholarly journal aggregators, and ebooks).
- Experience with collection development, such as managing collection funds, working with vendors, and identifying new business and financial resources.
- Experience assisting students and faculty with the discovery and use of business, management, and financial resources.
- Experience providing library instruction in an academic environment.
- Familiarity with financial data resources, with experience assisting researchers with data discovery and access.
- Experience providing highly responsive public service in a library.
- Experience working collaboratively and building relationships with students, faculty, and staff in an academic or library environment.
- Demonstrated commitment to the Library’s values: collaboration and community, equity and inclusion, learning and growth, and openness and transparency through their actions and behaviors.
- Demonstrated analytical, presentation, and communication skills.

**Salary**

The UC academic salary scales set the minimum pay determined by rank and salary point at appointment. See the following table(s) for the current salary scale(s) for this position: [https://www.ucop.edu/academic-personnel-programs/_files/2025-26/represented-july-2025-scales/t26-b.pdf](https://www.ucop.edu/academic-personnel-programs/_files/2025-26/represented-july-2025-scales/t26-b.pdf). A reasonable estimate for this position is $80,349-$104,877.

**Job Location**

Berkeley, CA
