+++
title = "Digital Records Archivist"
employer = "Middlebury College"
employerurl = "https://middlebury.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://apply.workable.com/middleburycollege/j/8C8180846A/"
postdate = "2025-12-02"
archivedate = "2026-02-25"
draft = "false"
+++

**Digital Records Archivist**

The Digital Records Archivist is responsible for the accessioning, processing, arrangement, description, preservation, and access of digitized and born-digital materials according to archival standards and best practices. The Digital Records Archivist serves as the records manager of Middlebury College and will develop and implement a records management program for institutional records in both analog and digital formats.

**Core Responsibilities:**

- In collaboration with the Office of the General Counsel, develop and implement a records management program and retention schedule for the college. Educate and provide guidance to college employees about records management for institutional records in both analog and digital formats.
- Work collaboratively with the College Archivist to appraise, accession, process, arrange, describe, preserve, and provide access to digitized and born-digital records in Special Collections according to archival standards and best practices.
- Act as local expert on digital preservation systems, tools, and processes, and digital asset management and preservation, providing policy advice and guidance on the lifecycle management of digital collections to the college community.
- Define, grow, enhance, and manage a suite of tools and services that promote sustainable and scalable digital collections, and determine requirements and specifications for digital assets the library creates or acquires.
- Provide technical expertise with regards to digitization workflows.
- Coordinate the transfer of digital materials from a variety of current and legacy media formats such as tapes, floppy disks, CDs, and hard drives.
- Prepare digitized and born-digital materials for preservation ingest, stabilization, and storage in accordance with best practices and industry standards
- Actively contribute to departmental operations, including: reading room supervision, events, instruction, exhibitions, reference, outreach, and student supervision.

**Requirements**

- MLIS from an ALA-accredited program or its equivalent in work experience, education, and training
- One to three years of experience in a research library preferred, including one or more years’ experience building or managing digital library collections using a content management or digital preservation platform (ex: Drupal, Internet Archive Vault and Archive-It, Preservica)
- Experience with archival content management systems such as ArchivesSpace and the Internet Archive; and digital preservation systems such as Internet Archive Vault
- Deep functional and technical understanding of digital repository and content management systems, born-digital archives, digital preservation models, and digitization standards and best practices
- Familiarity with current toolkits and processes used in web, email, and social media archiving
- Knowledge of archival description standards (EAD, DACS) and knowledge of authority control, subject analysis, and controlled vocabularies
- Knowledge of metadata standards and creation (MARC, MODS, METS, Dublin Core)
- Preferred proficiency in emerging uses of AI in archival processing, Python or equivalent programming language, and familiarity with relevant code libraries for bulk text processing, CSV, XML, JSON, OAI-PMH, ArchivesSpace API, Internet Archive API, etc.
- Working knowledge of legacy computing platforms, file formats, storage devices, and emulation
- Experience integrating principles of equity, diversity, and inclusion into archival activities

**Physical Demands and Working Conditions:**

Work is performed in an office environment and requires occasional lifting of up to 50 pounds to load, unload, and maneuver book trucks. Must be able to frequently stand, sit, squat, bend, and climb up and down ladders and step stools. Must be able to occasionally lift objects above the shoulders or over the head.

**Salary**

$65,165 - $81,466

**Job Location**

Middlebury, VT
