+++
title = "Assistant or Associate Business Information & Data Services Librarian"
employer = "Colorado State University"
employerurl = "https://colostate.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://jobs.colostate.edu/postings/162417"
postdate = "2025-06-25"
archivedate = "2025-08-08"
draft = "false"
+++

**Assistant or Associate Business Information & Data Services Librarian**

The Colorado State University Libraries seeks a collaborative, creative, user-centered professional for the new position of Business Information & Data Services Librarian. The Librarian will lead the development of programs and services that support business, marketing, and data visualization services across the University. This role involves assessing needs across multiple disciplines, building partnerships, and fostering relationships within the Libraries and the broader University community to integrate digital tools, resources, and methodologies with traditional business and marketing research. Recognizing that business challenges increasingly require interdisciplinary solutions, this position will play a key role in assisting students and faculty from diverse fields with relevant datasets, analytical tools, and visualization resources.

The Libraries is committed to lifelong learning and faculty development, and the successful candidate will have the opportunity and support to expand their expertise and explore emerging tools and technologies that will strengthen the research community.

Working with colleagues in the Research Support and Open Scholarship Unit, the Business Information & Data Services Librarian works to provide services to the graduate student and research communities across disciplines, including developing workshops and training, collaborating with faculty from multiple colleges to provide information literacy instruction, and answering reference questions than span business, economics, and related fields.

- Designs and coordinates Libraries services to support current and emerging practices related to business information resources with particular attention to interdisciplinary applications and cross-sector research needs
- Designs and delivers workshops and course-integrated instruction on business information resources and data visualization.
- Cultivates expertise in data visualization tools and dataset discovery while collaborating with colleagues to sustainably support emerging technologies, with a focus on services for the interdisciplinary business information needs
- Conducts regular environmental scans to identify campus needs for business information and data visualization services across colleges and develops programming to address these needs
- Provides instruction and research support to upper-level undergraduate students, researchers and graduate students working in the areas of business, market research, and economics and interdisciplinary projects that incorporate business elements with other domains such as sustainability, public policy, technology innovation, and social impact
- Contributes to the development and planning of goals and programming that support the university research community.

This position is based in Fort Collins, Colorado, and has the option of a hybrid work arrangement that includes required on-campus hours each week. Hybrid work arrangements and on-campus hours are negotiated each semester with guidance from Libraries and university policies. [https://hr.colostate.edu/flexible- work-arrangements/](https://hr.colostate.edu/flexible-work-arrangements/)


**Essential Duties**

_Librarianship: Business information resources and data visualization consultation and research support_

This duty is part of the 90% Library Faculty Teaching assignment.

- Develops and maintains broad knowledge regarding business information resources
- Develops and maintains an expertise in data visualization
- Provides business and market research support through consultations, training, and instruction for faculty, students, and researchers.
- Serves as a resource to researchers, librarians, and the university community on business information resources and data visualization

Percentage Of Time	45

_Librarianship: Instruction, Outreach and Partnership_ - Provides business and market research support through consultations, training, and instruction for faculty, students, and researchers.

This duty is part of the 90% Library Faculty Teaching assignment.

- Develops, delivers, and promotes training on business information resources and data visualization
- Provides guidance and instruction on tools for data visualization and discovering data sets
- Works with researchers, including faculty, graduate and post-doc students, academic and administrative units, and research centers to integrate business information resources and data visualization tools into their work.

Percentage Of Time	45

_Service_

- Engages in service activities in support of the CSU Libraries, the University, and/or relevant regional and national professional organizations
- Promotes advancements in the field of librarianship or archives.

Percentage Of Time	10

**Required Qualifications**

- Candidates must have ONE of the following educational requirements and the degree must be completed by the start date:
   - Master’s degree in library science from an ALA-accredited program or international equivalent OR
   - PhD in a related field OR
   - Master’s degree in a business or data-intensive field plus two years of experience in the development, coordination, delivery, and/or promotion of business reference or data visualization services.

- Demonstrated ability to explain and/or teach complex ideas in a clear manner to audiences from diverse backgrounds
- Familiarity with business information resources and/or data visualization tools
- Demonstrated ability to learn new skills and adapt to a changing environment
- Demonstrated understanding of the American Library Association’s “Core Values of Librarianship” and how they relate to the mission and work of the CSU Libraries.
- Demonstrated ability to work collaboratively in a team environment
The position may be hired at Assistant or Associate Professor rank. For Associate Professor rank, a record of professional accomplishments supporting minimum appointment at the rank of associate professor for Continuing and Contract Faculty (non-tenure track). See Libraries Faculty Code
The successful candidate must be legally authorized to work in the United States by the time of hire. CSU Libraries will not provide visa sponsorship for this position.

**Preferred Job Qualifications**

- Academic background in business or economics
- Experience with business information resources
- Experience or coursework in data visualization (e.g., Tableau, Power BI, etc) or data analysis with R or Python
- Experience providing instruction, consultation, outreach, or policy development in a higher education, public research, government, or non-profit environment.

**Description of Work Unit** 

The Colorado State University (CSU) Libraries is at the heart of fostering learning, research, and community engagement. We are committed to providing access to information, ensuring that all users benefit from our resources. We have adopted CSU’s Principles of Community as our values.
Morgan Library serves as a dynamic hub where students connect with vital information and innovative resources. At CSU Libraries, you will be collaborating with and working alongside around 80 passionate faculty and staff members, as well as 80-100 motivated student employees, all united in meeting the diverse informational needs of our users in physical and digital spaces. We encourage and reinforce curiosity, professional growth, innovation, and leadership opportunities through dedicated time and funding in a supportive academic setting that values continuous learning.

The Research Support & Open Scholarship Unit is charged with reimagining library services to support Colorado State University’s world-class research community. Over the past five years CSU’s research expenditures have surged to $576 million in 2024, and CSU researchers are advancing solutions to some of biggest challenges affecting humanity and the planet. With a focus on innovation, collaboration, and open scholarship, the Research Support and Open Scholarship (RSOS) team leads the university community in providing information, knowledge support and services for CSU researchers, including faculty, graduate students, research associates, post-docs, and CSU Extension. Opportunities for engagement include data management and literacy, evidence synthesis, research impact and bibliometrics, and scholarly communication, including open access, open education, and open science. Join us on this journey toward an inclusive and informed future. Explore, learn, and grow with CSU Libraries!

Colorado State University is not just a workplace; it’s a thriving community that’s transforming lives and improving the human condition through world-class teaching, research, and service. With a robust benefits package, collaborative atmosphere, and focus on work-life balance, CSU is where you can thrive, grow, and make a lasting impact.

Review our [detailed benefits information here](https://hr.colostate.edu/wp-content/uploads/sites/25/2021/01/benefits-summary-afap.pdf).

Explore the [additional perks of working at CSU here](https://hr.colostate.edu/prospective-employees/our-perks/).

For the total value of CSU benefits in addition to wages, use our [compensation calculator](https://hr.colostate.edu/total-compensation-calculator/).

Lastly, click here for more information about why [Fort Collins is consistently ranked in the top cities to live in](https://hr.colostate.edu/prospective-employees/our-community/)!

**Salary**

Assistant Rank: $67,000-$74,000; Associate Rank: $74,000-$82,000

**Job Location**

Fort Collins, CO
