+++
title = "Data Science Specialist/Librarian"
employer = "University of Arizona"
employerurl = "https://arizona.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://arizona.csod.com/ux/ats/careersite/4/home/requisition/24632?c=arizona&sq=req24632"
postdate = "2025-12-02"
archivedate = "2026-02-25"
draft = "false"
+++

**Data Science Specialist/Librarian**

Located within the University of Arizona Libraries Research Engagement department, Data Cooperative provides data science, geospatial, and digital scholarship services for the University of Arizona. The incumbent will contribute to a robust program supporting data analysis and visualization through a variety of formats, providing up-to-date and on-demand training for relevant tools and resources.

The Data Science Specialist / Librarian will: design, develop, and deliver instruction on data science topics such as Python programming; provide training in the use of software to support communication of scholarship through visual media; stay abreast of trends and tools available in the evolving data science ecosystem; work with library colleagues and researchers to identify appropriate tools, platforms, and resources for visualization and informatics projects; collaborate with other members of the Data Cooperative and Research Engagement to develop outreach strategies and partnerships for supporting projects on computational and data literacy; identify opportunities for impactful engagement in data visualization and analysis by the University Libraries; contribute to the scholarly record through research, creative works, and/or scholarship. The successful candidate will be appointed as a Specialist or Librarian, depending on their terminal degree.

This is a continuing-eligible or continuing status track, academic professional position. Incumbents are members of the general faculty and are entitled to all accompanying rights and privileges granted by the Arizona Board of Regents and the University of Arizona. Retention and promotion are earned through achievement of a record of excellence in position effectiveness, scholarship, and service.

**Duties & Responsibilities**

**CHARACTERISTIC DUTIES**

**Data Science Outreach and Services**

- Develop and lead training opportunities in tools and resources such as data visualization, data analytics, and/or predictive analytics.
- Develop and lead training opportunities in introductory-level Python programming.
- Provide consultations to researchers on data analyses and visualization.
- Create effective marketing strategies for visualization and analysis services.
- Contribute to web resources to aid in discovery of visualization and analysis resources.
- Collaborate with Data Cooperative unit and Research Engagement department to support scholars and researchers throughout respective project lifecycles.

**Programmatic Liaison to Campus Partners**

- Partner with the Office of Research & Partnerships and Research Computing to support researchers needs for computational resources for data-intensive science.
- In collaboration with the Office of Research & Partnerships, organize Software and Data Carpentry workshops for researchers at the University of Arizona.
- Collaborate with relevant academic liaisons to support data science needs at the University of Arizona.

**Library Support**

- Provide leadership on engaging Library personnel with visualization and/or analytical approaches relevant to their portfolios.
- Communicate information on activities to Library staff and the University community.
- Participate in shared decision-making, goal setting, and planning activities within the domain.
- Support the Research Data Repository by participating in occasional dataset curation activities.

**Scholarship**

- Conduct original research and scholarship and disseminate findings through publication and participation in professional conferences.
- Plan and implement a continuous learning program that develops and improves personal skills and abilities and professional knowledge needed to meet the above responsibilities.

**Service**

- Support the profession through participation in professional societies, organizations, and initiatives.
- Support the Libraries and UA with strategic initiatives designed to encourage varied perspectives and create a positive environment for all faculty, staff, and students.
- Participate on committees and other service groups as assigned. The teams and amount of work may vary from year to year and includes participation in UAL shared governance.
- The UA Libraries support the UA’s strategic initiatives designed to create a welcoming environment for all faculty, staff, and students. The candidate is expected to support related strategic efforts in the department and Libraries.
- Other duties as assigned.

**KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES**

- Demonstrated expertise in training audiences with a variety of experiences and perspectives.
- Ability to work in a highly collaborative environment, one that values and leverages the benefits of a variety of perspectives.
- Knowledge of resources used to visualize data and communicate findings and trends.
- Proficiency in Python data analysis and visualization resources.
- Interest in promoting affordable, relevant open source software to appropriate audiences.
- Excellent interpersonal and communication skills (written, visual, and oral).
- Ability to identify and pursue opportunities.
- Ability to work independently and as part of team.
- Ability to work in an academic environment, interacting with clientele from a range of career trajectories and disciplines.
- Positive attitude and strong demonstration of UA Libraries’ Values.

**Minimum Qualifications**

- Master’s degree.
- Experience with the Python scripting language.
- Experience teaching or training.

**Preferred Qualifications**

- Professional experience working in an academic research library or other instructional/training setting
- Carpentries Instructor Certification
- Experience applying analytical or visualization approaches to a range of user needs and expertise
- Experience with one or more Python machine learning libraries (e.g. NumPy, scikit-learn, TensorFlow)
- Experience with one or more Python data visualization libraries (e.g., Seaborn, Bokeh, plotly)
- Demonstrated experience in pursuing independent and collaborative scholarship, such as peer-reviewed research, creative works, or open software projects

**Salary**

$63,000-$76,000

**Job Location**

Tucson, AZ
