+++
title = "Social Science Librarian"
employer = "Georgia State University"
employerurl = "https://gsu.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://facultycareers.gsu.edu/postings/5548"
postdate = "2025-06-25"
archivedate = "2025-08-08"
draft = "false"
+++

**Social Science Librarian**

The University Library is hiring a forward-thinking and collegial Social Science Librarian (open rank, non-tenure track faculty) to support key areas of research, teaching, and learning in the College of Arts and Sciences, with a particular focus on the Departments of Communication and Political Science (PhD programs), and other programs including Africana Studies and Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies (Masters programs).

Interested persons from any stage of their career are invited to apply. Working closely with assigned departments and programs in a collaborative and team-based environment, Research & Engagement Librarians provide individual and small-group consultations, workshops, and instruction in information and resource use. Librarians at Georgia State have a strong commitment to student learning and success and are expected to collaborate with library and campus colleagues serving the wide variety of colleges and programs. A desire to learn new skills and explore new areas of expertise is highly valued.

We welcome information professionals eager to partner with faculty in their research and teaching and work with students at all levels in learning the information tools and skills needed to succeed in college and career. The position serves as a member of the library faculty (12-month, non-tenure track), holds faculty rank, and is expected to participate in research, professional development, and service activities as outlined in the University Library’s faculty guidelines. The library is committed to providing exceptional professional development opportunities for its employees. While not required, employees are welcome to further their careers by earning an additional advanced degree, and, in most cases, tuition assistance is available.

**Required Experience**

- Experience providing in-person or online instruction
- Experience with research databases and methods in one or more related social science disciplines.

This position is eligible for hiring at the ranks listed below. The minimum required experience at each rank is noted below.

- Librarian Instructor – no experience required.
- Librarian Assistant Professor – A minimum 3 of years experience
- Librarian Associate Professor – A minimum 7 of years experience

**Required Education**

- Master’s degree in library/information science

**Preferred Qualifications/Experience**

- Experience working in an academic library
- Experience providing library outreach to academic departments
- Undergraduate or graduate degree in a related social science discipline

If you feel that you don’t meet these preferred qualifications, don’t let a confidence gap stop you from applying. Sometimes, preferred qualifications can miss key elements that strengthen our team the most. We value the many different skills and backgrounds that make us all unique.

**Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities**

- Knowledge of trends and new developments in teaching, student learning, and student success in higher education
- Knowledge of trends and new developments in research and the use of technology in delivering library and information services in higher education
- Excellent communication, presentation, and interpersonal skills

**About GSU**

Georgia State University is a national model for innovation and opening opportunities for all, among the top five most innovative by U.S. News & World Report, ranked 1st among public universities in undergraduate teaching, the number 1 nonprofit university to award bachelor’s degrees to African American students, 4th in the country for its first-year student experience, and highly ranked for enabling the social and economic mobility of its students. Among the most diverse universities in the nation, Georgia State opens global perspectives as the number 1 U.S. public university sending African American students to study abroad.

A regional gateway to higher education, the five suburban Perimeter College campuses provide more than 30 associate degree pathways. The downtown Atlanta campus offers more than 250 degree programs in 100 fields of study at the undergraduate, graduate and first-professional degree levels.

With five university-wide research centers and numerous centers and institutes at the college and school levels, Georgia State’s interdisciplinary, dynamic and productive research enterprises address major health and societal challenges. It is one of only 146 universities with an R1 designation from the [Carnegie Foundation](https://www.carnegiefoundation.org, an honor reserved for the nation’s most active research institutions. Outgoing research expenditures have doubled in the last decade and topped $1.2 billion over the last six years, an indication of the University’s rapid research growth.

Georgia State is vital to the regional economy, with a more than $2.9 billion economic impact, and is also a vital part of Atlanta’s vibrant arts and entertainment community, with highly regarded programs in music, art, creative writing and film, the Rialto Center for the Arts, and the Creative Media Industries Institute that contributes to innovation and the workforce for interactive media and media entrepreneurship.

General information on faculty roles and responsibilities can be obtained from the [Faculty Handbook](https://faculty.gsu.edu/faculty-handbook/) and the [Office of Faculty Affairs website](https://faculty.gsu.edu/). All faculty at Georgia State are, as part of their essential job duties, expected to: (1) be physically present on-campus as needed to contribute to Georgia State’s in-person educational experience, and (2) be able to teach in each of the following instructional modalities – in-person, online, or blended/hybrid – as determined by their Department Chair or Dean.

The University Library at the main Atlanta Campus provides one of the most attractive, open, and inviting educational facilities in the Southeast. With over1.25 million annual visitors, the library is an integral part of the University community. The library is a valued partner within the campus community, offering a modern, inviting, and centralized facility supporting teaching and research with extensive collections and outstanding assistance. Learn more about the University Library at
[lib.gsu.edu](https://lib.gsu.edu).

**Salary**

$61,100 - $72,600, dependent on experience, education, and faculty rank. Appointment at faculty rank (Instructor/Assistant/Associate Professor). Twelve-month assignment, faculty rank, non-tenure track

**Job Location**

Atlanta, GA
