+++
title = " Research Infrastructure and Software Engineer "
employer = "Harvard Kennedy School"
employerurl = "https://www.hks.harvard.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.harvard.edu/job/research-infrastructure-and-software-engineer-in-cambridge-ma-united-states-jid-1155"
postdate = "2026-03-25"
archivedate = "2026-05-26"
draft = "false"
+++

**Research Infrastructure and Software Engineer**

Harvard Kennedy School is hiring three positions as part of a broader effort to strengthen its research enablement and compliance operations. These roles are based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and are two-year term appointments with the possibility of renewal.  
 
This role is aimed at someone who can design and build research computing platforms, software, and storage infrastructure that support fast, reproducible, and scalable research. It will involve close collaboration with researchers, IT groups, and research support staff, with a strong emphasis on secure and policy-aligned technical solutions. 
 
**Company Description**

By working at Harvard University, you join a vibrant community that advances Harvard's world-changing mission in meaningful ways, inspires innovation and collaboration, and builds skills and expertise. We are dedicated to creating a diverse and welcoming environment where everyone can thrive.

**Why join the Harvard Kennedy School?**

The John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University is one of 12 graduate and professional schools at the university. Harvard Kennedy School’s mission is to improve public policy and leadership so people can live in societies that are more safe, free, just, and sustainably prosperous. By combining cutting-edge research, the teaching of outstanding students, and direct interaction with practitioners, we have an impact on solving public problems that no other institution can match. When you work at Harvard Kennedy School, you make a difference.

**Job Description**

The Harvard Kennedy School (HKS) is launching an initiative to build the best-in-class research enablement environment for public policy. Over the next two years, the School will pilot and pressure test strategies and solutions addressing the increasing complexity of the research and research compliance environment. This position will directly support this work.

As a member of the Research Computing and Data Services (RCDS) team in Library and Research Services (LRS) at the Harvard Kennedy School (HKS) and reporting to the Director of Research Computing and Data Services, the Research Infrastructure and Software Engineer will design and build software and platforms for fast, reproducible, and scalable research. You will problem-solve and apply out-of-the-box technical solutions to address the ever-increasing complexity of research and research compliance. You’ll work under the direction of the Director of Research Computing and Data Services, and in close collaboration with LRS research enablement staff. You will partner with Harvard’s cloud vendors, the HKS research community, HKS Information Technology, Harvard University Information Technology, and Harvard High Performance Computing units to design reliable compute, data, and experimentation systems.
 
 We seek candidates who have:

- An ability to work in a distributed organization that often requires collaborating with multiple parties to accomplish objectives
- An ability to partner with research, business, legal, and technical subject matter experts when necessary to develop and implement solutions
- The willingness and proven ability to proactively take responsibility and action to resolve cross functional issues across organizational boundaries.
- Demonstrated ability to work effectively in a collaborative and/or team environment.
- A commitment to belonging, community, and connection. 

Within LRS, we value continually learning. You will be expected to continually pursue new areas for learning related to this role and use newly gained skills and knowledge on the job. You will also encourage and support this learning for other members of LRS.

HKS, including LRS, is committed to building a welcoming and supportive community of staff, faculty, and students. This position will work toward building such a community and foster an environment in LRS (for colleagues and library patrons) that values and prioritizes belonging, community, and connection

**Job-Specific Responsibilities:**

As Research Infrastructure and Software Engineer, you will:

- Design, build, maintain, and document research computing and storage infrastructure on-prem, in the cloud, or hybrid
- Work closely with the LRS research enablement team to design and develop solutions for research, research enablement, and training at HKS
- Provide guidance and advisory services, and develop and deliver trainings to the HKS research community
- Develop solutions aligned with the Harvard information security and data policies
- Stay abreast of emerging technologies and incorporate them into solutions, as appropriate
- Employ best practices in designing, developing, and maintaining solutions
- Collaborate with the members of the Research Computing and Data Services group to develop and continually update and expand a research engineering services and solutions portfolio that addresses current and future needs of the HKS research community
- Build trust and rapport with the HKS research community, HKS and Harvard central IT groups

**Qualifications**

**Basic Qualifications**

- Bachelor’s degree in an engineering or related field and a minimum of five years’ relevant work experience, or
- A minimum of nine years of relevant work experience or equivalent combination of education and experience

**Additional Qualifications and Skills**

Note: Related degrees include: computer science, software engineering, physics, computational science, or other closely related degree.

Proficiency in Python or another advanced programing language, Experience with building production quality services. Experience with Linux, containerization, orchestration, cloud services, and infrastructure as code. 

If you meet some, but not all of the following, you are encouraged to apply; we value employees with a willingness to learn. 

- Understanding of technologies employed in research in higher education 

- Familiarity with distributed computation solutions 

- Familiarity with GPU profiling and optimization 

- Experience with data/storage systems   

- Strong prioritization, process, and time management skills  

- Strong interpersonal skills and ability to influence others effectively  

**Additional Information**

Remote work options can be considered, though work must be done in one of Harvard's registered payroll states: California, Connecticut, Georgia, Illinois, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island, Vermont, Virginia, Washington.

- Appointment End Date: This position is funded as part of the school’s vision and strategy process and is a fully benefits-eligible two-year term appointment, with the possibility of renewal. 
- Visa Sponsorship Information: Harvard University is unable to provide visa sponsorship for this position
- Pre-Employment Screening: Identity, Education

**Work Format Details**

This position has been determined by school or unit leaders that some of the duties and responsibilities can be effectively performed at a non-Harvard location. The work schedule and location will be set by the department at its discretion and based upon operational needs. When not working at a Harvard or Harvard-designated location, employees in hybrid positions must work in a Harvard registered state in compliance with the University’s Policy on [Employment Outside of Massachusetts](https://harvie.harvard.edu/sites/g/files/omnuum12046/files/humanresources/files/employment_outside_ma_policy.pdf). Additional details will be discussed during the interview process. Certain visa types and funding sources may limit work location. Individuals must meet work location sponsorship requirements prior to employment.

**Benefits**

Harvard offers a comprehensive benefits package that is designed to support a healthy work-life balance and your physical, mental and financial wellbeing. Because here, you are what matters. Our benefits include, but are not limited to: 

- Generous paid time off including parental leave 
- Medical, dental, and vision health insurance coverage starting on day one 
- Retirement plans with university contributions 
- Wellbeing and mental health resources 
- Support for families and caregivers 
- Professional development opportunities including tuition assistance and reimbursement 
- Commuter benefits, discounts and campus perks

Learn more about these and additional benefits on our [Benefits & Wellbeing Page](https://hr.harvard.edu/benefits-wellbeing). 

**Salary**

This position is salary grade level 058. Please visit  [Harvard's Salary Ranges ](https://hr.harvard.edu/salary-ranges) to view the corresponding salary range and related information. 

**Job Location**

Cambridge, MA
