+++
title = "Data Safety Reviewer"
employer = "Harvard Kennedy School"
employerurl = "https://www.hks.harvard.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.harvard.edu/job/data-safety-reviewer-in-cambridge-ma-united-states-jid-1156"
postdate = "2026-03-25"
archivedate = "2026-05-26"
draft = "false"
+++

**Data Safety Reviewer**

Harvard Kennedy School is hiring three positions as part of a broader effort to strengthen its research enablement and compliance operations. These roles are based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and are two-year term appointments with the possibility of renewal.  
 
This position focuses on helping researchers work with sensitive data responsibly and in compliance with institutional policy and overarching legal framework. The role includes reviewing data management plans, advising on secure data practices, coordinating with compliance and technical stakeholders, and operating and improving the Data Safety process. 
 
**Company Description**

By working at Harvard University, you join a vibrant community that advances Harvard's world-changing mission in meaningful ways, inspires innovation and collaboration, and builds skills and expertise. We are dedicated to creating a diverse and welcoming environment where everyone can thrive.

**Why join the Harvard Kennedy School?**

The John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University is one of 12 graduate and professional schools at the university. Harvard Kennedy School’s mission is to improve public policy and leadership so people can live in societies that are more safe, free, just, and sustainably prosperous. By combining cutting-edge research, the teaching of outstanding students, and direct interaction with practitioners, we have an impact on solving public problems that no other institution can match. When you work at Harvard Kennedy School, you make a difference.

**Job Description**

The Harvard Kennedy School (HKS) is launching an initiative to build the best-in-class research enablement environment for public policy. Over the next two years, the School will pilot and pressure test strategies and solutions addressing the increasing complexity of the research and research compliance environment. This position will directly support this work.

As a member of the Research Computing and Data Services (RCDS) team in Library and Research Services (LRS) at the Harvard Kennedy School (HKS) and reporting to the Director of Research Computing and Data Services, the Data Safety Reviewer  will be primarily charged with managing the Data Safety process and queue for the Harvard Kennedy School. You will review and guide Principal Investigators and researchers through the Data Safety research compliance process, advising on research data management best practices that comply with Harvard Research Data Security Policy and the Harvard IT Enterprise Policy while referring researchers to IT, legal, or other experts if ethical, security, policy, and legal considerations arise in planning for data collection, processing, and dissemination. You will work closely with the Research Data Steward, Director of Research Computing and Data Services, and the HKS Chief Research Data and Privacy Officer to make substantive process and service improvements across the Data Safety process, management of regulated and contractual data, and other key aspects impacting HKS researchers managing sensitive data.
 
 We seek candidates who have:

- An innovative, entrepreneurial spirit accompanied by a strong mix of analytical and operations/logistic skills
- An ability to work in a distributed organization that often requires collaborating with multiple parties to accomplish objectives
- An ability to partner with research, business, legal, and technical subject matter experts when necessary to develop and implement solutions
- The willingness and proven ability to proactively take responsibility and action to resolve cross functional issues across organizational boundaries.
- Demonstrated ability to work effectively in a collaborative and/or team environment.
- A commitment to belonging, community, and connection. 

Within LRS, we value continually learning. You will be expected to continually pursue new areas for learning related to this role and use newly gained skills and knowledge on the job. You will also encourage and support this learning for other members of LRS.

HKS, including LRS, is committed to building a welcoming and supportive community of staff, faculty, and students. This position will work toward building such a community and foster an environment in LRS (for colleagues and library patrons) that values and prioritizes belonging, community, and connection

**Job-Specific Responsibilities:**

As Data Safety Reviewer, you will:

- Serve as a Primary Data Safety Reviewer for HKS: Data Management Plans are a required approval process (Data Safety) for all research data deemed sensitive and often require coordination and communication with IRB, DUA Negotiating Offices, the HKS School Security Officer and HKS IT team, and the HKS Research Administration Office. Responsible for making a data security level (DSL) determination for Sensitive Data, providing Researchers with information about methods to bring a Data Management Plan into compliance with the assigned DSL(s).
- Administer high quality, user-centered consultation with faculty, students, fellows, and research staff pursuing research that requires a data management plan and/or Data Safety review. Work closely with the Manager of Research and Data Services on making improvements and gaining efficiencies in the Data Safety process and developing processes and services to support FAIR practices at HKS.
- Maintain and continuously develop expertise in data management and treatment to provide faculty, students, and staff with specialized professional support while building trust and rapport across these communities. Employ creativity and innovative approaches to data management to facilitate and support the research of HKS without compromising the security and protection of sensitive research data.
- Establish and nurture deep knowledge of expertise, services, and resources available through HKS and Harvard University to support research data management and research computing. Share this knowledge across LRS to support an efficient referral system of all LRS staff working with faculty, staff, students, and fellows.
- Work closely with the members of the RCDS team to develop processes and services such as documenting challenges, resolving issues, and gaining efficiencies in the Data Safety process
- Work collaboratively on cross-functional teams to move LRS portfolios, projects, and initiatives forward.
- Work actively and collaboratively across LRS, HKS, and the University to improve research and data services/resources for the HKS community.
- Under the direction of the Director of Research and Data Services, take on new challenges, projects, and duties as necessary to support the HKS mission.

**Qualifications**

**Basic Qualifications:**

Master's degree in information science, library science, information management, or equivalent degree and a minimum of 2 years' professional experience in data management, data stewardship, or data governance.

**Additional Qualifications and Skills:**

If you meet some, but not all of the following, you are encouraged to apply; we value employees with a willingness to learn.

- Customer services skills or relevant client relationship management skills
- Skills in copyright, legal and ethical matters related to research data
- Expertise in research data management (privacy, security, description, archiving, dissemination)
- Good knowledge of the research environment
- Strong digital literacy skills and the ability to identify and map security requirements of a dataset to appropriately secured research computing tools
- Experience in subject areas that coincide with Harvard Kennedy School curriculum and research
- Experience in higher education research compliance

**Additional Information**

- Appointment End Date: This position is funded as part of the school’s vision and strategy process and is a fully benefits-eligible two-year term appointment, with the possibility of renewal. 
- Visa Sponsorship Information: Harvard University is unable to provide visa sponsorship for this position
- Pre-Employment Screening: Identity, Education
- Other Information: This is a hybrid position and is expected to work on campus in Cambridge, MA a minimum of 3 days/week.

**Work Format Details**

This position has been determined by school or unit leaders that some of the duties and responsibilities can be effectively performed at a non-Harvard location. The work schedule and location will be set by the department at its discretion and based upon operational needs. When not working at a Harvard or Harvard-designated location, employees in hybrid positions must work in a Harvard registered state in compliance with the University’s Policy on [Employment Outside of Massachusetts](https://harvie.harvard.edu/sites/g/files/omnuum12046/files/humanresources/files/employment_outside_ma_policy.pdf). Additional details will be discussed during the interview process. Certain visa types and funding sources may limit work location. Individuals must meet work location sponsorship requirements prior to employment.

**Benefits**

Harvard offers a comprehensive benefits package that is designed to support a healthy work-life balance and your physical, mental and financial wellbeing. Because here, you are what matters. Our benefits include, but are not limited to: 

- Generous paid time off including parental leave 
- Medical, dental, and vision health insurance coverage starting on day one 
- Retirement plans with university contributions 
- Wellbeing and mental health resources 
- Support for families and caregivers 
- Professional development opportunities including tuition assistance and reimbursement 
- Commuter benefits, discounts and campus perks

Learn more about these and additional benefits on our [Benefits & Wellbeing Page](https://hr.harvard.edu/benefits-wellbeing). 

**Salary**

This position is salary grade level 057. Please visit  [Harvard's Salary Ranges ](https://hr.harvard.edu/salary-ranges) to view the corresponding salary range and related information. 

**Job Location**

Cambridge, MA
