+++
title = "Institutional Research Analyst"
employer = "University of Illinois Chicago"
employerurl = "https://uic.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://uic.csod.com/ux/ats/careersite/1/home/requisition/20043?c=uic&sq=institutional"
postdate = "2026-06-15"
archivedate = "2026-06-26"
draft = "false"
+++

**Institutional Research Analyst**

**About the University of Illinois Chicago**

UIC is among the nation’s preeminent urban public research universities, a Carnegie RU/VH research institution, and the largest university in Chicago. UIC serves over 34,000 students, comprising one of the most diverse student bodies in the nation and is designated as a Minority Serving Institution (MSI), an Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander Serving Institution (AANAPSI) and a Hispanic Serving Institution (HSI). Through its 16 colleges, UIC produces nationally and internationally recognized multidisciplinary academic programs in concert with civic, corporate and community partners worldwide, including a full complement of health sciences colleges. By emphasizing cutting-edge and transformational research along with a commitment to the success of all students, UIC embodies the dynamic, vibrant and engaged urban university. Recent “Best Colleges” rankings published by U.S. News & World Report, found UIC climbed up in its rankings among top public schools in the nation and among all national universities. UIC has over 300,000 alumni, and is one of the largest employers in the city of Chicago.

This position is intended to be [eligible for benefits](https://www.hr.uillinois.edu/cms/One.aspx?portalId=4292&pageId=2461262). This includes Health, Dental, Vision, Life Insurance, a Retirement Plan, Paid time Off, and Tuition waivers for employees and dependents.

The Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research (OVCR) is seeking a research data management professional to support the university’s growing data initiatives. Working closely with the Associate Chief Research Information Officer, Research Data Governance, this role will develop and deliver workshops on research data management and sharing, provide hands-on support for data management plans creation to meet funder requirements, and oversee data management plan tracking, reporting, and repository integration.

The Institutional Research Analyst will also contribute to hiring and supervising graduate assistants supporting data management efforts, assist with institutional responses to federal Requests for Information, support strategic data initiatives, and identify emerging trends, challenges, and opportunities in research data management.

**Duties and Responsibilities:**

- Design, develop, and facilitate instructional workshops, training sessions, and informational resources on data management and data initiatives.
- Collaborate with researchers to promote best practices in research data management.
- Provide support to researchers by assisting with the development, review, and revision of data management plans in accordance with federal and private funding requirements.
- Oversee data management plan tracking, reporting, and repository integration.
- Contribute to the recruitment, onboarding, training, and ongoing supervision of graduate assistants who support research data management and governance services.
- Collaborate with internal stakeholders to form cross-functional teams and contribute to drafting institutional responses to federal Requests for Information (RFIs). 
- Contribute to institutional research data initiatives related to data governance, data security and privacy, and compliance requirements.
- Identify upcoming research data trends, challenges, and opportunities and translate insights into recommendations for strategic planning.
- Perform other related duties and participate in special projects as assigned.

**Qualifications:**

- Master’s degree in Library and Information Science, Informatics, Public Policy, or closely related fields.                 
- Experience with creating research data management plans.
- Familiarity with federal funder and journal data policies.
- Excellent written and verbal communication skills.
- Demonstrated strong coordination and organizational skills.
- Effective collaborator with a variety of colleagues and leaders.

**Salary**

The budgeted salary range for the position is $65,000-$85,000. The final salary offered will be determined by a thorough assessment of available market data, internal salary equity, candidate experience and qualifications, and budget constraints.

**Job Location**

Chicago, IL
