+++
title = "Qualitative Data Services Librarian"
employer = "University of Cincinnati"
employerurl = "https://uc.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://jobs.uc.edu/job/Qualitative-Data-Services-Librarian%2C-University-Of-Cincinnati-Libraries/101746-en_US"
postdate = "2026-04-23"
archivedate = "2026-05-26"
draft = "false"
+++

**Qualitative Data Services Librarian**

Founded in 1819, the University of Cincinnati ranks among the nation’s best urban public research universities. Home to more than 53,600 students, 12,000 faculty and staff, and over 360,000 living alumni, UC, a Carnegie 1 institution, combines research prowess with a physical setting The New York Times has called “the most ambitious campus design program in the country." UC's momentum has never been stronger as the anchor of the Cincinnati Innovation District, the oldest cooperative education (co-op) program in the country with students earning $94 million annually through paid experiences, an academic health system, and as a member of the Big 12 Conference. The university contributes $10.6 billion in economic impact to the city and $22.7 billion to the state of Ohio. At UC, next is all of us. Learn more at [uc.edu](https://uc.edu). 

UC is a mission-driven organization where we are committed to student success and positively transforming the community through scholarship and service.  We thrive on innovation, making an impact, and fostering an environment where staff and faculty are key contributors to UC’s success. 


**Job Overview**

UC Libraries seeks a knowledgeable, motivated, creative, and service-oriented Qualitative Data Librarian to design, develop, and implement a cohesive and innovative suite of services focused on qualitative data such interview transcripts, focus groups, literature reviews, and other text-based data. The successful candidate will work collaboratively with researchers throughout the research lifecycle. This is a 12-month full time tenure-track library faculty position.

RELATIONSHIP/AUTHORITY: This position reports to the Assistant Director of Research and Data Services with a dotted line to the Assistant Director of Academic and Research Engagement and is a member of the Research and Data Services Team.

**Essential Functions**

Research Support

- Develop and deliver innovative and sustainable research services throughout the research lifecycle focused on qualitative data management.
- Collaborate with RDS team members and liaison librarians to implement research data management services and to support scholarly communication and digital scholarship.
- Collaborate with CEAS faculty to support usage and developing programming for the data visualization space, DaVInCi@Langsam
- Identify, champion, and implement best practices, tools, and services that meet researcher needs in research areas that generate qualitative data.
- Promote reproducibility and ethics principles in study design and data collection.
- Promotes Open Science principles and resources. Teaching
- Provide instruction in the form of classroom, workshop and other venues as well as consultations to UC student, staff, and faculty researchers on data literacy, tools and resources, and AI applications in research including finding, using, cleaning, analyzing, and managing qualitative data.

Collections

- Play a collaborative role in research data resource collection development including resources such as ICPSR, Qualitative Data Repository (QDR), and others. Service and Partnerships
- Participate in committees, task forces, and organizations related to the duties and responsibilities of the position, and in support of UC Libraries’ broader programs and priorities.
- Serve as a liaison to other research support offices/areas or other key points-of-contact to promote Research and Data services and other library data efforts.

Scholarship

- Participate in scholarly, professional, and service activities that enhance the mission of UC Libraries and fulfills requirements for promotion and tenure.

**Required Education**

Master’s degree in Library and Information Science (MLIS) or an equivalent education in a qualitative data-intensive discipline (e.g., criminal justice, education, psychology, anthropology, sociology), and at least one (1) year of relevant professional experience.

**Required Experience**

- Entrepreneurial attitude to developing researcher-centered services and instructional programs.
- Demonstrated understanding of qualitative data and research trends (FAIR data, CARE principles, data sharing, research reproducibility, AI in research, etc.), techniques and tools (AtlasTI, NVivo, MaxQDA, Tableau, and R).
- Ability to learn and apply innovative technologies to a broad range of library applications.
- Effective written and oral communication skills. Demonstrated analytical thinking and problem-solving skills.
- Additional Qualifications Considered
- Additional technical training in qualitative research methods and tools, or other data analysis areas such as spatial analysis.
- Experience in an academic or research library environment.
- Effective project management skills; experience coordinating and promoting services; experience communicating and collaborating with faculty.
- Experience in grant writing, or a familiarity with federal funding requirements.
- Knowledge of current instructional pedagogies.

**Compensation and Benefits**
 
UC offers an exceptional benefits package designed to support your well-being, financial security, and work-life balance. ([UC Benefits](https://www.uc.edu/employees/hr/benefits.html)) Eligibility may vary by position and FTE status. Highlights include:

**Comprehensive Tuition Remission**

UC provides tuition remission for you and your eligible dependents, covering tuition costs for nearly all undergraduate and graduate programs offered by the university.

**Robust Retirement Plans**

As a UC employee, you won’t contribute to Social Security (except Medicare). Instead, you’ll choose between state pension plans (OPERS, STRS) or an Alternative Retirement Plan (ARP), with UC contributing 14–18% of your salary based on position.
 
**Real Work-Life Balance**

UC prioritizes work-life balance with a generous time-off policy, including:

- Vacation and sick time
- 11 paid holidays and additional end-of-year paid time off (Winter Season Days)
- 6 weeks of paid parental leave for new parents

**Additional Benefits Include:**

- Comprehensive health coverage (medical, dental, vision, prescription)
- Flexible spending accounts & wellness programs
- Professional development & mentorship opportunities
 
To learn more about why UC is a great place to work, please visit our [Careers Page](https://www.uc.edu/careers.html).

**Salary**

$63,000 - $68,000 based on experience and qualifications

**Job Location**

Cincinnati, OH
