+++
title = "Economics and Management Librarian"
employer = "Yale University"
employerurl = "https://www.yale.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.yale.edu/us/en/job/135957WD/Economics-and-Management-Librarian"
postdate = "2026-06-18"
archivedate = "2026-06-26"
draft = "false"
+++

**Economics and Management Librarian**

Under the direction of the Associate Director, Research Engagement in the Department of Data and Research Innovation, the Economics and Management Librarian is part of a two-person team with primary responsibility for need finding and relationship building with faculty, students, researchers, staff, and practitioners in economics and management related interdisciplinary programs. They design and deliver specialized research services and explore new models for engaging with and facilitating support throughout the research lifecycle.

Research Engagement consists of three teams that serve Yale’s Social Science and Science departments, schools, and research centers. Using a collaborative, user-focused workflow emphasizing efficiency, responsiveness, and adaptability, the group creates and delivers programs that support the full research lifecycle and accelerate research and practice. Each team is responsible for understanding needs and trends in their areas of focus and lends their expertise to programs and services offered by the Data and Research Innovation department.

The Economics and Management Librarian’s key areas of support include research consultations, research data support, scholarly profiles and research impact, and building community through common research methods and tools. Each team member serves as a knowledgeable resource, connecting faculty, students, staff, and researchers with relevant collections, services, and experts. They will work collaboratively with the Computational Methods and Data team to support data-intensive research.

The Economics and Management Librarian partners with appropriate staff in other Yale Library units to complete high-impact projects and deliver services, collections, and events. Key partners may be found in Learning and Student Success, Scholarly Communication and Collection Strategy, Arts and Humanities, and the Cushing/Whitney Medical Library. The incumbent will also develop relationships and partnerships with relevant social science academic departments, schools, institutes, and centers.

The Economics and Management Librarian participates in Yale Library planning, committees, and task forces; and engages in campus, regional, and national organizations and collaborative activities. The incumbent is expected to participate in professional activities outside of Yale and to monitor developments and best practices elsewhere to help ensure the excellence of Yale’s research and learning program.

Yale Library serves a diverse staff, campus, local, and global community and is deeply committed to advancing its goals for equity, inclusion, and accessibility. This commitment is reflected in our mission, strategic directions, staff values, initiatives, and scholarly activity. To support our goals for staff recruitment, retention, and development, Yale Library invites applications from candidates whose philosophies align with these commitments and who have demonstrated success with supporting diversity and inclusion through their work, service, research, and/or teaching.

This position will be assigned a rank of Librarian 2 to Librarian 3 based on a combination of professional experience and accomplishments. Librarian ranking information can be found at: [http://bot.ly/YULRanksPromotions](http://bot.ly/YULRanksPromotions).

**Required Skills and Abilities**

- Demonstrated excellent oral, written, and interpersonal communication skills.
- Demonstrated ability to provide high quality, user-centered services, preferably in an academic library setting.
- Demonstrated ability to identify, search, and instruct researchers in the use of economics, business, and management information resources.
- Demonstrated ability to find and use economic, financial, and related data to support interdisciplinary research.
- Demonstrated ability to work collegially and cooperatively within and across organizations.

**Preferred Skills and Abilities**

- Fluency with one or more common tools or programming languages used by researchers to work with economic, business, and financial data, e.g. Excel, SAS, R, STATA, Python, etc.
- Experience with reviewing and negotiating licenses for research datasets.
- Experience with graduate-level instruction.

**Principal Responsibilities**

- Provides research support to students, faculty, and staff in academic departments, schools, and research centers through consultations, instruction sessions, and in-person and virtual reference services. 
- Designs and delivers workshops and instructional sessions to support economics and business-related disciplines.
- Creates accessible learning materials such as written guides, tutorials, and interactive modules for independent learning.
- Provides research support for economics and business datasets and databases such as recommending a resource appropriate to a researcher’s stated interest or demonstrating how to access qualitative and quantitative data within subscription databases.
- Supports collection development through robust user engagement efforts, communicating student, faculty, and practitioner needs to relevant library departments and contributing to license review when necessary. 
- Participates in departmental assessment, evaluation, and reporting initiatives. 
- Participates in library and department-wide planning, committees, and work groups, and engages in campus, regional and national professional organizations, and collaborative activities. Monitors developments and best practices elsewhere to help ensure the excellence of Yale’s collections and research support services.
- May be required to assist with disaster recovery efforts.
- May be assigned to work at any Yale University location. 
- May perform other duties as assigned.

**Required Education and Experience**

- A master’s degree from an ALA-accredited library school or equivalent degree or other relevant advanced academic degree. 
- Background in economics, management, social science, or other relevant field.
- Familiarity with a major financial data product, including but not limited to: WRDS, Bloomberg, Refinitiv Workspace, CapitalIQ, Datastream, FactSet, etc. 
- Experience in or knowledge of social science research methodologies and tools.
- Experience designing and delivering instruction.
- Experience designing projects and bringing them to a conclusion in a timely fashion.
- Experience working collaboratively and independently with varied groups within a complex organization. 

**Salary**

The budgeted salary range for this position is $75-90K.

**Job Location**

New Haven, CT
