+++
title = " Research Navigator "
employer = "Harvard Kennedy School"
employerurl = "https://www.hks.harvard.edu/"
moreinfourl = "https://careers.harvard.edu/job/research-navigator-in-cambridge-ma-united-states-jid-1157"
postdate = "2026-03-25"
archivedate = "2026-05-26"
draft = "false"
+++

**Research Navigator**

Harvard Kennedy School is hiring three positions as part of a broader effort to strengthen its research enablement and compliance operations. These roles are based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and are two-year term appointments with the possibility of renewal.  
 
This role is designed for someone who can improve the research compliance pipeline by identifying bottlenecks, coordinating across offices, and helping research projects move more efficiently from startup through approval. It combines operations, process design, and stakeholder coordination in support of research teams. 
 
**Company Description**

By working at Harvard University, you join a vibrant community that advances Harvard's world-changing mission in meaningful ways, inspires innovation and collaboration, and builds skills and expertise. We are dedicated to creating a diverse and welcoming environment where everyone can thrive.

**Why join the Harvard Kennedy School?**

The John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University is one of 12 graduate and professional schools at the university. Harvard Kennedy School’s mission is to improve public policy and leadership so people can live in societies that are more safe, free, just, and sustainably prosperous. By combining cutting-edge research, the teaching of outstanding students, and direct interaction with practitioners, we have an impact on solving public problems that no other institution can match. When you work at Harvard Kennedy School, you make a difference.

**Job Description**

The Harvard Kennedy School (HKS) is launching an initiative to build the best-in-class research enablement environment for public policy. Over the next two years, the School will pilot and pressure test strategies and solutions addressing the increasing complexity of the research and research compliance environment. This position will directly support this work.

 As a member of the Research Computing and Data Services (RCDS) team in Library and Research Services (LRS) at the Harvard Kennedy School (HKS) and reporting to the Director of Research Computing and Data Services, the Research Navigator will be responsible for building an end-to-end logistical flow of research across the research compliance ecosystem that Principal Investigators and researchers navigate at HKS.  You will build systems to track in flight research across the research lifecycle, identify roadblocks, and intervene to remove barriers and address bottlenecks. Working across multiple administrative offices within HKS and also across Harvard, you will actively problem-solve, design and propose policy and process changes to ensure timely research project start up. With direction from the HKS Chief Research Data & Privacy Officer and the Director of Research Computing and Data Services. This position will also experiment and pilot new ideas to improve the experience and process of accomplishing research at HKS. We seek candidates who have:

- An innovative, entrepreneurial spirit accompanied by a strong mix of analytical and operations/logistic skills
- An ability to work in a distributed organization that often requires collaborating with multiple parties to accomplish objectives
- An ability to partner with research, business, legal, and technical subject matter experts when necessary to develop and implement solutions
- The willingness and proven ability to proactively take responsibility and action to resolve cross functional issues across organizational boundaries.
- Demonstrated ability to work effectively in a collaborative and/or team environment.
- A commitment to belonging, community, and connection. 

Within LRS, we value continually learning. You will be expected to continually pursue new areas for learning related to this role and use newly gained skills and knowledge on the job. You will also encourage and support this learning for other members of LRS.

HKS, including LRS, is committed to building a welcoming and supportive community of staff, faculty, and students. This position will work toward building such a community and foster an environment in LRS (for colleagues and library patrons) that values and prioritizes belonging, community, and connection


**Job-Specific Responsibilities:**

As Research Navigator, you will:

- Identify and quantify administrative, technical, and other resources needed to move research projects successfully and expediently through the research compliance pipeline.
- Analyze and systematize the research compliance pipeline, building systems and solutions to bottlenecks and process slow downs. Specifically, 
    - Monitor research compliance processes and ancillary processes to identify process bottlenecks, and trigger corresponding corrective actions.
    - Develop optimal processes for research compliance staff and researchers to improve research process across the research lifecycle. Coordinate and facilitate communication among the multiple parties. involved in the research compliance and ancillary processes
    - Design pathways for research projects to achieve approval on defined and transparent timelines.
- Under the leadership of the Director of Research Computing and Data Services and HKS Chief Research Data & Privacy Officer, work closely with colleagues across the department, HKS, and the University to plan, solution, and execute to improve the process for conducting research at HKS with particular emphasis on reducing the time to approval in research compliance processes for research teams.
- Build trust and rapport with the HKS research community, HKS research enablement groups, and Harvard’s central research administrative and compliance units to facilitate coordination of efforts, communication, and general awareness of the administrative and compliance landscape at HKS and Harvard.

**Qualifications**

**Basic Qualifications:**

Bachelor's degree and a minimum of 2 years' professional experience in supply chain management, operations, or logistics, including experience with refining and improving complex distributed services.

**Additional Qualifications and Skills:**

If you meet some, but not all of the following, you are encouraged to apply; we value employees with a willingness to learn.

- Understanding of academic research and the research compliance environment and processes in higher education
- Expertise in process design and optimization
- Strong skills in data analysis and analytical thinking
- Strong problem solving skills 
- Strong communication skills in presenting data-driven solutions and recommendations to executives
- Proficiency in using and building solutions that coordinate the flow of goods/services and/or effectively forecast demand/workload
- Strong prioritization, process, and time management skills 
- Strong interpersonal skills and ability to influence others effectively 
- Experience in subject areas that coincide with Harvard Kennedy School curriculum and research

**Additional Information**

- Appointment End Date: This position is funded as part of the school’s vision and strategy process and is a fully benefits-eligible two-year term appointment, with the possibility of renewal. 
- Visa Sponsorship Information: Harvard University is unable to provide visa sponsorship for this position
- Pre-Employment Screening: Identity, Education
- Other Information: This is a hybrid position and is expected to work on campus in Cambridge, MA a minimum of 3 days/week.

**Work Format Details**

This position has been determined by school or unit leaders that some of the duties and responsibilities can be effectively performed at a non-Harvard location. The work schedule and location will be set by the department at its discretion and based upon operational needs. When not working at a Harvard or Harvard-designated location, employees in hybrid positions must work in a Harvard registered state in compliance with the University’s Policy on [Employment Outside of Massachusetts](https://harvie.harvard.edu/sites/g/files/omnuum12046/files/humanresources/files/employment_outside_ma_policy.pdf). Additional details will be discussed during the interview process. Certain visa types and funding sources may limit work location. Individuals must meet work location sponsorship requirements prior to employment.

**Benefits**

Harvard offers a comprehensive benefits package that is designed to support a healthy work-life balance and your physical, mental and financial wellbeing. Because here, you are what matters. Our benefits include, but are not limited to: 

- Generous paid time off including parental leave 
- Medical, dental, and vision health insurance coverage starting on day one 
- Retirement plans with university contributions 
- Wellbeing and mental health resources 
- Support for families and caregivers 
- Professional development opportunities including tuition assistance and reimbursement 
- Commuter benefits, discounts and campus perks

Learn more about these and additional benefits on our [Benefits & Wellbeing Page](https://hr.harvard.edu/benefits-wellbeing). 

**Salary**

This position is salary grade level 057. Please visit  [Harvard's Salary Ranges ](https://hr.harvard.edu/salary-ranges) to view the corresponding salary range and related information. 

**Job Location**

Cambridge, MA
